,id,URL,Title,Subtitle,Date,Main_Content
0,378,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/01/terra-founder-floats-38m-proposal-for-american-sports-league-deal/,Terra Founder Floats $38M Proposal for American Sports League Deal,Terra founder Do Kwon proposed sponsoring an unidentified major American professional sports league franchise to the tune of $38.5 million.,2022-02-01,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon floated a funding proposal for $38.5 million from the Terra community treasury to sponsor a major American sports league team he didn't name. The funding would be in the form of TerraUSD (UST) stablecoins, or tokens pegged on a 1:1 basis with U.S. dollars.
“This proposal involves a legendary sports franchise and a household name in one of the major four American professional sports leagues – the NFL, NBA, NHL and MLB,” Kwon said on Tuesday. “For legal reasons, we cannot reveal the identity of the franchise until after the voting period has concluded and the partnership agreement is settled.”
The National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), National Hockey League (NHL), and Major League Baseball (MLB) are four of the biggest sports leagues in the world. They together attract billions of dollars in advertising revenue each year and offer some of the most-watched sporting events.
The Community Pool of Singapore-based Terra is one of the largest decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) in the crypto industry, with over $2.74 billion in assets.
A DAO is a blockchain-based organization often governed by its native crypto token. Holders collectively vote on decisions to determine the DAO’s future, unlike traditional companies where decisions are taken by an elected board.
According to Kwon’s proposal, the deal would help fund a five-year exclusive partnership to promote the Terra brand across the franchise’s home venue and its television network.
Under the terms of the agreement, the community pool will pay the full amount upon execution of the deal. This represents annual fees of $7.50 million a year for five years and $650,000 to cover construction, renovation and redesign costs.
If the proposal is passed by the Terra community, the funds will be distributed to a multi-signature (multisig) wallet controlled by a newly formed Terra Community Trust (TCT).
The Terra DAO is the direct beneficiary of this wallet and would have three trustees: 1. Delphi Labs General Counsel Gabriel Shapiro, RealVision co-founder Remi Tetot, and Draft Kings board member Ryan Moore.
“The delivery of funds to the TCT and eventually the sports franchise will be executed via a UST to [U.S. dollar over-the-counter] deal with a leading and well-reputed trading firm,” Kwon said in the proposal.
While Terra’s proposal could make it one of the first instances of a DAO funding a sporting partnership, several crypto companies have turned to sports companies as a means of promotion. Such funding has crossed $1 billion in the past year.
Crypto services firm Crypto.com leads the list. In the past year, the firm inked a $700 million agreement to rename the iconic Staples Center in Los Angeles to Crypto.com Arena, struck a $100 million deal with Formula 1, announced a three-year partnership with soccer's Paris Saint-Germain, and became the official jersey patch sponsor of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team.
Crypto exchange FTX also has multiple partnerships. In the past year, the Bahamas-based crypto exchange purchased the naming rights to esports giant TSM in June for $210 million, secured a 19-year deal with Miami Heat, a five-year partnership with MLB, and secured the naming rights to UC Berkeley’s football stadium.
Terra’s LUNA tokens were among the top gainers on Tuesday, rising as much as 22% in 24 hours. Price surged to as much as $53.96 in the Asian morning before tumbling down to $51.80 at the time of writing."
1,81,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/23/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-may-not-be-out-of-the-woods-yet-stablecoins-bull-market-continues/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin May Not Be out of the Woods Yet; Stablecoins' Bull Market Continues,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for Feb. 23, 2022.",2022-02-23,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Terra's LUNA leads recovery in the crypto market.
Featured stories: Bitcoin may not be out of the woods yet, derivatives data indicate. Stablecoin supply continues to rise.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show ""First Mover,"" hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time. Today's show will feature guests:
Marc LoPresti, managing director, The Strategic Funds
Michael Chobanian, founder, KUNA Exchange
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin was better bid while heading into the American trading hours, with traditional markets pointing to continued risk reset. At press time, the Aussie dollar and the New Zealand dollar were trading higher against the greenback, and the futures tied to the S&P 500 pointed to a positive open with a 0.4% gain.
""The market appears to be judging the initial salvo of sanctions against Russia for formally recognizing the separatist regions in Ukraine as modest at best and has preceded to take on more risk,"" Bannockburn Global Forex's Marc Chandler said in a blog post.
Terra's LUNA token, Cardano's ADA and Avalanche's AVAX led the recovery in the broader crypto market with double-digit gains on a 24-hour basis. LUNA's strength perhaps stemmed from Singapore-based nonprofit organization Luna Foundation Guard's (LFG) decision to create a bitcoin-denominated reserve as an additional layer of security for UST – Terra's decentralized stablecoin.
LDO, the governance token of liquid staking protocol Lido, dipped to $1.60, trimming Tuesday's 37% spike from $1.36 to $1.87 despite continued inflows into the protocol. ""Yesterday, someone staked 28,000 ETH ($75m) with Lido in a single transaction. That's the 5th largest staking transaction into Lido so far. And today, another 22,500 ETH was staked (7th largest),"" analytics firm Nansen's CEO Alex Svanevik tweeted.
Also read: SAND Token, Below 200-Day MA, Joins Broader Crypto Market in Gloomy Outlook
Terra's LUNA Jumps 15% as UST Stablecoin Gets $1B Bitcoin Reserve
Cardano’s ADA Jumps Amid Recovery in Major Cryptos, Traders Still Remain Cautious
Aventus Taps Scytale Ventures to Boost Polkadot Parachain Plans
‘Web3Memes’ Rugs $235K From Investors Five Hours After Issuance: PeckShield
India's Crypto Advertising Guidelines Are Out
NYSE Parent ICE Takes Stake in tZERO in Potential Move Toward Tokenized Stocks
By Omkar Godbole
While bitcoin is trading higher for the second day, it may be too early to call a bottom as the derivatives market continues to reflect pessimism, and the cryptocurrency is yet to take out a key technical hurdle.
The annualized rolling three-month futures premium continues to trend south in major exchanges, including the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) and Binance, indicating pessimism among both institutional and retail traders.
The CME futures traded at a premium of 2% at press time, while offshore futures traded at a premium of over 3%, according to data provided by Skew.
""The futures basis still experience a steady decline as the bears show no signs of stopping,"" Arcane Research said in a weekly note published Tuesday. Basis refers to the spread between prices in futures and spot markets.
The options market continued to show a put bias with one-, three- and six-month put-call skews returning positive values. A put option gives the purchaser the right but not the obligation to sell the underlying asset at a predetermined price on or before a specific date. A put buyer is implicitly bearish on the market.
From a technical analysis perspective, $44,000 appears to be the resistance to beat for the bitcoin bulls. The cryptocurrency recently failed to establish a foothold above that level, as evident from the long upper wicks attached to the previous two weekly candles.
By Omkar Godbole
The supply of stablecoins or cryptocurrencies with values pegged to external references like the U.S. dollar continues to grow even as the broader crypto market remains depressed.
Coingecko data shows the market capitalization of stablecoins has risen above $180 billion, marking a 32% jump from the tally of $141 billion observed before the crypto market peaked in mid-November.
""Tether (USDT) is the biggest stablecoin with a 44% market share, followed by USD Coin (USDC) with 29%, and Binance USD (BUSD) with 20%. USDC grew extremely fast in 2021 and has continued its strong growth in 2022 with a 20% growth,"" Arcane Research noted. ""Since the summer of 2021, USDT's growth has stagnated, and it has only grown 1% so far in 2022.""
The popular narrative says that the surge in stablecoin supply represents ""dry powder,"" which can be used to snap up cryptocurrencies at cheap prices.
However, that's not necessarily true, and investors could be simply seeking refuge in the stablecoins offering protection from market volatility.
Besides, prospects of higher interest rates in the U.S. could be powering demand for these dollar-pegged currencies."
2,381,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/03/anchor-protocols-anc-rallies-23-heres-why/,Anchor Protocol’s ANC Rallies 23% – Here’s Why,Anchor is a decentralized money market built on the Terra blockchain that offers UST depositors a 20% annual percentage yield.,2022-03-03,"Anchor Protocol’s governance token, ANC, has gained 23% over the past 24 hours and was trading at $4.95 at press time.
Henrik Andersson, co-founder of Australia-based crypto-asset investment firm Apollo Capital, said that the rally is due to a combination of ANC offering a high annual percentage yield (APY) and talks of new tokenomics.
“Anchor offers among the highest APY for crypto stablecoins which has driven demand of UST,” said Andersson. “At the same time stablecoin yield on aggregator platforms like Yearn and Convex has fallen dramatically to low single digit to low double digits.”
This, in combination with talks of new tokenomics for ANC, might be the reason for the rally, said Andersson.
Anchor is a decentralized money market built on the Terra blockchain that offers UST (Terra’s U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin) depositors a 20% APY. ANC, Anchor’s inflationary protocol token, offers holders governance rights as well as a percentage of protocol earnings.
Anchor Protocol announced in a Feb. 17 blog post a proposal introducing vote-escrowed ANC (veANC) instead of ANC staking. Vote escrow, which was pioneered by curve.finance, is a mechanism of locking tokens for a preset time period. The longer users elect to lock up tokens, the more weight the tokens might get for governance voting and earning staking rewards.
“ANC would be locked up for up to four years in a contract to mint veANC,” wrote Anchor in the blog post.
“VeANC would mean that ANC would need to be locked in order to achieve the highest possible yield on UST – this could further drive demand for the ANC token,” said Andersson.
Meanwhile, the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) announced at the end of February that it closed a $1 billion private token sale to establish a decentralized UST Forex Reserve denominated in bitcoin.
“This makes TerraUSD the only stablecoin (with reserve backing) that is fully decentralized,” said Shawn Dexter, DeFi analyst at Quantum Economics, in a telegram chat with CoinDesk. This is because the coin is not issued by a central party, nor are the reserves controlled by a central party (unlike USDT or USDC, for example).
“This was an inflection point for Luna and instantly made most projects on the ecosystem (including Anchor) that much more attractive,” said Dexter.
“The confidence in Anchor Protocol and its prospects for long-term success is dependent on the success and stability of the Terra ecosystem,” added Dexter.
The $1 billion raise along with the fact the reserves are in bitcoin speaks to the long-term prospects of the ecosystem seeing continued development and improvements, according to Dexter. “UST being backed by BTC reserves reduces the fragility of their entire ecosystem during times of market stress and contraction,” he said.
Terra’s LUNA token is up 43% in the last 7 days, trading at around $93.
“Many market participants perceive projects on the Terra ecosystem as a higher-beta trade on Luna, and this could be why we are seeing the stronger projects (on Terra) see their price rally since the announcement,” said Dexter."
3,308,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/09/luna-surges-25-to-new-all-time-high-of-104/,LUNA Surges 25% to New All-Time High of $104,Strong demand for Terra's stablecoin is behind the big move for sister token LUNA.,2022-03-09,"Terra’s LUNA token rose to as high as $104.58 on Wednesday morning, topping a previous all-time record of $103.34 notched last December.
According to data from CoinMarketCap, LUNA was up 25% over the previous 24 hours. As of press time, the token had pulled back a bit to $102. LUNA has now more than doubled in price since putting in a 2022 low of about $44 in late January. Its current valuation just shy of $38 billion makes it the sixth-largest cryptocurrency by market cap.
LUNA’s new milestone makes it an outlier among large-cap cryptocurrencies, with names like bitcoin (BTC), ethereum (ETH), cardano (ADA), binance (BNB), avalanche (AVAX) and solana (SOL) down 40-70% from all-time highs.
The gains for LUNA are likely thanks to strong demand for sister token TerraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar.
UST maintains its dollar peg by burning or issuing LUNA tokens. When the value of UST drops below $1 (for example, to $0.98), holders of UST can convert UST to $1 worth of LUNA (therefore, arbitrageurs can pocket the $0.02 difference).
Conversely, if – as appears to be occurring now – demand for UST drives the price of the token over $1, users can mint additional UST (driving the price of UST back down to $1) by burning the dollar-equivalent amount of LUNA. This burning of LUNA tokens to create UST drives up the price of LUNA.
Behind that strong demand is Terra’s Anchor Protocol, a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform advertising an annualized percentage yield (APY) of nearly 20% on Terra stablecoins. That high yield compared to other stablecoin lending protocols has attracted an influx of capital into Terra in recent weeks. The total value locked (TVL) on the platform soared to $12.6 billion, making it the largest DeFi protocol by TVL in the Terra ecosystem, according to data provider DeFi Llama.
Anchor is currently paying out a 19.46% APY for users that lock up their UST in the protocol. The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) tweeted last Saturday that it was minting the “maximum amount” of UST to keep up with demand.
In another tweet this morning, the LFG said it would burn the remaining 4.2 million LUNA left in its treasury to provide UST liquidity to the stablecoin decentralized exchange Curve.
To add further tailwinds, Terra co-founder Do Kwon tweeted that the LFG is adding $418 million in reserves to its treasury, bringing its total to $1.5 billion.
The reserves could be used to buy LUNA tokens to convert to UST, or to shore up Anchor’s reserves to pay those sky-high yields to depositors. Either scenario would put upward pressure on the price of LUNA.
CORRECTION (March 9, 8:15 UTC): Corrects to say 4.2 million LUNA tokens. Original version said $4.2 million of LUNA tokens."
4,309,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/10/icons-icx-rockets-70-as-crypto-friendly-candidate-wins-south-korean-presidential-election/,Icon’s ICX Rockets 70% as Crypto-Friendly Candidate Wins South Korean Presidential Election,The South Korean project recorded an unusual bounce on Thursday after Yoon Suk-yeol was elected president.,2022-03-10,"Tokens of prominent South Korean project Icon surged as much as 70% in the past 24 hours after the election of Yoon Suk-yeol as the country's president.
The project's ICX token jumped from a low of $0.61 on Wednesday to over $1.04 on Thursday morning before retracing some of the gain. The price is still some 92% below the 2018 peak of $13.
Price charts suggest the token may drop to a support level at $0.70 if current buying pressure is not sustained.
ICX is a prominent project whose protocol allows separate blockchains to exchange data with each other. It was one of the top performers in the initial coin offering frenzy of 2017 before losing favor among investors in the years afterward.
South Korean exchange UpBit continues to see tens of millions worth of ICX traded daily, data show. Wednesday, however, saw over $410 million in volume on the ICX/Korean won trade pair. UpBit posted trading volumes of over $4 billion in total, more than twice the $1.8 billion traded on Sunday.
Other projects with Korean ties saw similar price jumps. Singapore-based Terra, started life in South Korea, saw prices of its LUNA tokens cross an all-time high of $103 in early Asian hours.
Gains in LUNA were also driven by strong demand for sister token terraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar, as reported.
Yoon was a former top prosecutor who promised to deregulate the crypto industry. Both he and his opponent, Lee Jae-myung of the ruling Liberal Party, announced crypto-friendly measures to win over younger voters, as reported.
Yoon has promised to raise the proposed threshold for the 20% capital-gains tax on cryptocurrency profits to KRW 52.4 million (US$42,450). This is higher than the current KRW 2.5 million threshold due to start in 2023. He also promised to ""take legal measures to confiscate crypto profits gained through illegitimate means and return them to the victims.”
The current government under President Moon Jae-in has cracked down on crypto in South Korea, which became one of the biggest markets for the asset class with a young, tech-friendly population. Regulatory restrictions saw some 70 Korean exchanges close last year, leaving only a handful operating as of Thursday.
Analysts said similar price volatility should be expected as countries warm up to the industry.
""This week has been, what many consider, a positive turning point for the crypto and digital assets industry,"" said James Wo, founder of crypto fund DFG, in a Telegram message. ""With [two] global leaders such as the U.S. and South Korea signaling the intent to work on analyzing and educating themselves to embrace a technological advancement that has grown to have close to $2 trillion in market cap with slim to none guardrails, the market is reacting with high expectations.""
""We could see important upside volatility as major jurisdictions adopt similar positions,"" Wo said."
5,310,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/27/bitcoin-springs-past-46k-to-hit-3-month-high/,"Bitcoin Hits Breakeven for First Time This Year, Blows Past $47,201 Before Settling Back",The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has risen for six consecutive days and gained over 12% since last Sunday upon a broader asset rally and Luna BTC buys.,2022-03-27,"Bitcoin (BTC) briefly blew past its 2022 yearly break-even point of $47,201, reaching as high as $47,524 before settling back in the $46,850 range by early afternoon Asia time, according to CoinDesk data.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization is up 5% in the last 24 hours, according to market data. Bitcoin has gained over 12% since last Sunday after climbing six consecutive days.
In a note published Monday morning Asia time, Singapore's QCP capital pointed to a broader rally in global asset prices as a reason why this ""bullish momentum"" is likely to continue in the near term. The fund also pointed to the continued bitcoin buys from Luna as a reason for the continued momentum.
""One notable buy flow this week was the 125 million USDT purchase of BTC by Luna Foundation Guard (LFG). This purchase is part of the plan to systematically accumulate a total 3 billion USD worth of BTC as a reserve for TerraUSD (UST),"" QCP wrote.
Ether (ETH) and most other major cryptos were also blooming. The second-largest crypto by market cap followed a similar pattern to bitcoin on Sunday and was changing hands at over $3,250, its highest level since early February. The tokens of Solana, Cardano and Avalanche were among other altcoins were well into the green. Popular meme coins dogecoin and shiba inu, were up about 6% and 3% respectively.
Trading was accelerating after weeks of low volumes.
""Trading volumes are up as buyers try to turn this resistance line into support and take further steps up in pricing,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk, but added: ""If we don't remain above this line, we will consolidate lower than here.""
DiPasquale said that bitcoin had had ""a strong week, especially given the quarterly options expiry"" on Friday and noted that bitcoin had ""shown resilience"" following the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision last week to raise interest rates and the continued escalation of Russia's invasion of Ukraine with its economic fallout.
But he was also cautious in his appraisal of the coming days. ""While market participants are starting to get bullish and the fear and greed index is at neutral, BTC bulls will want to see the price consolidating above $46,000 for further continuation,"" he said. ""The coming week is also important as it marks the end of the quarter, and we could see increased volatility after that.""
UPDATE (March 27, 2022, 06:11 UTC): Updates headline to say bitcoin hit breakeven for year; adds details throughout.
UPDATE (March 27, 2022, 02:55 UTC): Updates headline to $46.8K, adds details from QCP note.
UPDATE (March 27, 2022, 22:36 UTC): Updates headline to $46.5K."
6,83,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/27/just-as-hal-finney-predicted-bitcoin-is-being-purchased-to-act-as-a-reserve-currency/,"Just as Hal Finney Predicted, Bitcoin Is Being Purchased to Act as a Reserve Currency","With a plan to buy up $10 billion of BTC, Do Kwon’s UST stablecoin project may be fulfilling a prophecy by the late recipient of the first bitcoin transaction.",2022-03-27,"Hal Finney received the first-ever Bitcoin transaction. Hal passed from ALS in 2014, but his legacy lives on because he was a genius (at least, by my account). Or a time traveler. Or a clairvoyant. I mean, he tweeted this in 2009.
Later, in 2010, Finney wrote a message on the famed BitcoinTalk forum that discussed the “ultimate fate of Bitcoin, to be the ‘high-powered money’ that serves as a reserve currency for banks that issue their own digital cash.” Now we’re seeing another Finney premonition potentially coming true.
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
On March 14, Do Kwon, the founder of Terraform Labs, announced UST was going to be backed by a $10 billion reserve of bitcoin (BTC). Terraform Labs created the Terra protocol that issues the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and luna (LUNA), the latter of which algorithmically backs the former.
While Terraform Labs is not exactly a bank, it is issuing its own digital cash to make paying for things easier – and it’s about to be backed by bitcoin. This is a big deal for anyone with a vested interest in the Bitcoin system, even if you vehemently reject altcoins (non-bitcoin cryptos; there is another, less flattering term for these).
Taking a step back, a stablecoin is a cryptocurrency whose value is pegged to some other asset, usually the U.S. dollar. Stablecoins are important because they are widely used in crypto trading, with Tether’s USDT making up a majority of trading volume. But they also have potential payment applications. In total, USD stablecoins represent at least $180 billion of total market value.
Most popular stablecoins, like USDT and Circle’s USD coin (USDC), hold real-world assets as backing. For USDT, it’s a mixed bag; for USDC it’s cash (and “fairly stated” cash equivalents). These are called collateralized stablecoins. There are other types of stablecoins known as algorithmic stablecoins, like UST.
I’ll admit that I sorta kinda lied to you. UST is algorithmic but it will become somewhat collateralized. The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) was set up in January. LFG is a nonprofit organization with a mission focused on promoting a “truly decentralized economy.” Its primary focus is Terra and providing a reserve backstop in case the UST/LUNA incentive mechanism fails. What better asset to hold in reserve than the preeminent crypto and reserve asset 3.0?
Initially, LFG intends to buy $3 billion of BTC. Of that, $2.2 billion has already been raised through $1 billion of outside funding and $1.2 billion of USDT which was purchased with UST that LFG already had (the remaining $800 million is coming). Kwon added on Twitter that the BTC reserve could grow to $10 billion by using a “portion of the seigniorage '' through normal operation of the Terra protocol to buy BTC. Seigniorage is a big word for the excess value of newly minted currency over the cost of producing it. In government terms, U.S. quarters have less than $0.25 of metal in them; in UST terms, the cost of production is nearly zero so a portion of seigniorage profits are burned and the other portion goes to the treasury.
It may have already started. There is a bitcoin address that’s rumored to be LFG’s and it looks as if the nonprofit is buying $125 million of BTC every day. For an asset that churns out >$20 billion in volume each day that doesn’t seem like much, but 60 basis points of volume can be meaningful. Kyle Davies of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital indicated as much on Twitter. These daily purchases could also last for months if LFG does in fact want to get to $10 billion of BTC reserves.
This should appeal to anyone who pays attention to crypto. The main criticism of collateralized stablecoins is that their need for “attestations” (not quite the same thing as audits) by accountants cut against the ethos of crypto. “Don’t trust, verify” pulses through the veins of lovers of decentralization, and just taking what Circle or Tether tells us about their backing at face value seems wrong.
If successful, UST could become a dollar stablecoin backed by a completely auditable, transparent and decentralized digital asset. That’s a big deal. You won’t need to trust Do Kwon that the collateral is there, nor an accounting firm that will qualify its assurances with weasel words. You’ll be able to see for yourself on the blockchain.
And if this happens, you won’t be able to convince me that Hal wasn’t just another physical manifestation of Pythia."
7,312,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/28/shiba-inu-solana-tokens-lead-gains-as-bitcoin-hovers-over-47k/,"Shiba Inu, Solana Tokens Lead Gains as Bitcoin Hovers Over $47K",Crypto markets followed moves in bitcoin amid reports of multimillion-dollar purchases of the asset by a major blockchain entity.,2022-03-28,"Bitcoin (BTC) held over the $47,000 mark during the European hours on Monday following a surge from Sunday’s $44,700 level, leading to a broader recovery and a 5.4% addition or $100 billion to the overall capitalization of the crypto markets, in the past 24 hours.
Some funds attributed bitcoin’s surge to demand generated by Luna Foundation Guard (LFG). The LFG intends to accumulate $3 billion in bitcoin as a reserve for TerraUSD (UST), a stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar, and has purchased $125 million worth of the asset multiple times in the past week.
Major cryptocurrencies displayed gains after over two weeks of staying flat. Solana’s SOL jumped as much as 14%, with similar gains seen on Shiba Inu’s SHIB and Polkadot’s DOT tokens. SOL set monthly highs of $110, data show, while SHIB was in touching distance of its monthly highs of $0.00002788.
A jump in SOL prices made it costly for traders betting against higher prices of the asset. Data show nearly $30 million in liquidations occurred on SOL-tracked futures. Bitcoin futures racked up $172 million in losses, the most among all cryptocurrencies, while ether futures followed with $139 million.
The losses added to nearly $455 million in overall liquidations in the crypto market. Liquidation occurs when a trader has insufficient funds to keep a leveraged trade open.
Analysts cautioned against euphoric sentiment for bitcoin as sentiment indicators suggested a correction could be on the cards.
“The Crypto Fear and Greed index has reached 60 which is classified as Greed – the last time it reached this level Bitcoin was around $60,000,” explained Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at crypto broker GlobalBlock, in an email to CoinDesk. The fear and greed index calculates investor sentiment, with “greed” readings leading to a high probability of an imminent correction and “fear” readings preceding a period of the uptrend.
But Sotiriou expects prices to move much higher in the coming days. “Bitcoin is facing heavy resistance, but if it is able to hold above the $46,000 level (which roughly marks the yearly open) for several days, I expect a move to $52,000, which is the next key resistance,” he said in the email.
Several other analysts shared similar price targets for bitcoin.
“A sustenance of the current growth track can push the price of BTC above $50,000 before the end of the week and between the $50,000 to $55,000 range before mid-April,” said Alexander Mamasidikov, co-founder of mobile digital bank MinePlex, in a Telegram message.
Vasja Zupan, president of Matrix Exchange, seconded that sentiment. “It could be a sign that markets are beginning to recover from the initial shock of the Ukraine war,” he said in a Telegram message. “Bitcoin will disconnect from the tech stock markets and serve as a hedge in an inflationary environment as digital gold. The first goal is $50,000.”
Crypto entrepreneurs like Zupan are back to much higher estimates of bitcoin’s future prices. “I wouldn't be surprised if we hit 100k before the end of the year, regardless of the geopolitical situation,” he said."
8,314,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/29/tracking-luna-foundation-guards-bitcoin-purchases/,Tracking Luna Foundation Guard’s Bitcoin Purchases,"Thanks to the transparency of Bitcoin, we can watch along as LFG moves UST towards a bitcoin-backed existence.",2022-03-29,"It was recently announced that the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a nonprofit organization focused on the Terra blockchain protocol, might purchase $10 billion or more of bitcoin (BTC) to act as a reserve for the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin. While the specifics on how the BTC will be wrapped for use by the protocol are still in the works, thanks to the transparency of the Bitcoin blockchain we can see just how much bitcoin LFG has purchased.
CoinDesk has confirmed that the LFG’s bitcoin address is bc1q9d4ywgfnd8h43da5tpcxcn6ajv590cg6d3tg6axemvljvt2k76zs50tv4q.
The actions of the address – such as purchases or transfers – can be viewed using a block explorer or a full node. OKLink, a blockchain explorer, has also tagged the address as LFG’s. More conveniently, there is a Twitter bot that tracks the balance of the LFG wallet. As a result, we can track LFG’s progress as it builds up its bitcoin reserve.
As of writing, LFG is in the process of raising $3 billion, most of which has already been raised, to buy bitcoin and has purchased almost 28,000 bitcoin, worth ~$1.3 billion. Given the indication that LFG intends to hold more than $10 billion in bitcoin, there is more purchasing that LFG needs to do. Absent any large moves in BTC price, that could mean ~180,000 bitcoin of purchase volume in the coming months. Given there is more than $20 billion of bitcoin trading volume each day and that LFG has made most of its purchases in ~$125 million lots, it won’t have any issues filling its purchase orders.
Still, this is a meaningful slug of purchase demand.
Bitcoin has always been a permissionless, decentralized network that powers a fully transparent asset. So, if successful, UST could become a dollar stablecoin backed by a fully transparent asset. Right now, collateralized stablecoins like USDT and USDC are backed by dollars in reserve, but the amount of backing is only verified by accounting firms’ assurances. A dollar stablecoin with provable reserves might be seen by some analysts as an improvement on the current collateralized stablecoins where users need to trust, rather than verify, assets in reserve.
Read more: Just as Hal Finney Predicted, Bitcoin Is Being Purchased to Act as a Reserve Currency
This could be an important development for stablecoins. Stablecoin trading pairs – say, UST for ether (ETH) – make up a significant majority of crypto trading volume and, beyond that, they have potential payment use cases. As the economy, crypto or otherwise, increases dependence on stablecoins, the reliability of their peg becomes paramount. An important stablecoin project moving to a bitcoin backing could prove a useful development in the journey for fiat-pegged digital cash."
9,315,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/03/now-that-q1-is-over-is-the-bull-market-back/,"Now That Q1 Is Over, Is the Bull Market Back?","Most of Q1 was uninspiring, but bitcoin’s price ticked up as we closed out the quarter potentially signaling renewed strength in the crypto market.",2022-04-03,"Calendar year quarters provide an artificial breakpoint to reflect on what happened. The first quarter of 2022 didn’t really provide much by way of crypto market movement until it was basically over. Since February until this past weekend the price of bitcoin (BTC) had been range-bound between $37,500 and $42,500. Given the macro landscape, this was surprising. Russia invaded Ukraine, the Federal Reserve announced at least six rate hikes and there were lots of things happening in U.S. and European Union regulation.
It was even more surprising if we compared bitcoin’s price in that period to, well, everything else. Between Feb. 1 and March 14 the S&P 500 shed 8% and long-term (20-year) Treasurys dipped 7%. Meanwhile, bond markets were ravaged and we saw the price of commodities, like oil and nickel, spike aggressively. (Side note: The story about the London Metal Exchange and the nickel short squeeze is a must read.)
Meanwhile, bitcoin didn’t really do anything.
That was true until last week. We rolled into that weekend, March 25, with bitcoin at $44,000 and by that Monday, March 28, it had brushed up against $48,000. This gain was partially catalyzed by the Luna Foundation Guard planning to buy up to $10 billion of BTC to back its terraUSD (UST) stablecoin. The persistent bitcoin purchases by LFG has proved to be a near-term tailwind for bitcoin price. Crypto investors, who are salivating at the prospect of earning up to 19.62% interest on UST holdings using the Anchor protocol, seem to agree as LUNA, the token that powers UST, gained ~15% in the last week of the first quarter.
With the price of bitcoin finally trending up, the bitcoin options market saw open interest (OI), the U.S. dollar amount allocated to bitcoin options contracts, hit a year-high ~$9.8 billion on March 24, a day where more than $3 billion in options expired. Since then, we've seen more than $1.3 billion in options enter the market, marking a relatively quick recovery.
However, bitcoin wasn’t the only asset that the market has liked recently. In fact, the market liked ether (Ethereum’s native asset) more, with ETH gaining 23% since Feb. 1 (compared to BTC’s 18%). ETH’s price catalyst came on March 14 when Ethereum successfully “merged” on the Kiln testnet ahead of the blockchain’s eventual move to proof-of-stake. Ethereum changing its consensus mechanism to proof-of-stake has been closely watched by investors, and the successful test signaled to the market that Ethereum might actually make the transition that has been in the works since 2015.
On the topic of ether, its price compared to bitcoin’s (ETHBTC) has started to reverse. ETHBTC was on a steady climb from 0.024 to as high as 0.087 in 2021 (the unit is bitcoin per ether), but ETH’s market cap has mostly lost ground to BTC this year, dropping from 0.083 to 0.065 between Jan. 4 and March 14. Since then, ETHBTC has steadily walked up to 0.073.
From here, it is natural to look at bitcoin dominance, the measure of BTC market capitalization compared to the market capitalization of all crypto assets. In times of uncertainty, bitcoin dominance tends to gain ground, and that has come to bear so far in 2022. It has been a weird, tough year in general for the crypto market, even with the recent run-up (bitcoin lost 2% in the first quarter).
As we take a look towards the second quarter, I want to share a detailed (and esoteric) on-chain bitcoin chart Glassnode published in its most recent newsletter. The chart is titled “Bitcoin: Realized Cap HODL Waves (Coins > 1yr).”
HODL Waves are groupings of bitcoins differentiated by the amount of time those bitcoins have been held (e.g., bitcoins held for two years would be in the two- to three-year HODL Wave). If we then weigh those HODL Waves by “Realized Price,” the price at which those bitcoins last moved, we can use the result to analyze the U.S. dollar wealth held in those bitcoins. If we filter out coins less than a year old, we get an interesting visual.
If we consider that bear markets come in two phases, the first where a low proportion of wealth is held by older investors and the second where the wealth disparity recovers strongly as more coins age into the one-year band at a higher cost basis. That cost basis should stand in as a higher floor value than the previous cycle. We might be at a turning point in this bear market.
Lastly, while the past is not indicative of the future, understanding the past can help us anticipate what might happen. Looking back, we know that it sometimes snows in April on the bitcoin market. But usually bitcoin performs well in April, with an average gain of about 17% over the month. So, who knows, maybe we’ll close the book on the bear market in the next 27 days. But maybe not."
10,82,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/04/08/frax-stablecoin-backing-to-feature-layer-1-tokens-real-world-loans/,"Frax Stablecoin Backing to Feature Layer 1 Tokens, Real-World Loans",Using real assets will allow Frax’s products to operate as intended even in a bear market.,2022-04-08,"Algorithmic stablecoin platform Frax Finance plans to expand the basket of assets that back its FRAX stablecoin by adding other cryptocurrencies, interest-generating tokens and traditional asset loans to the mix.
The Frax protocol is a two-token system comprising the stablecoin and a governance token, Frax shares (FXS). FRAX maintains a peg to the U.S. dollar by being partially collateralized by USD coin (USDC) alongside periodically buying and selling FXS to maintain its market capitalization.
That is set to change.
""FRAX plans to buy native tokens of layer 1 blockchains that support the FRAX stablecoin to be used as reserve collateral,” founder Sam Kazemian said in a message to CoinDesk. “As FRAX is on multiple blockchains, we are taking a multichain approach in proportion to demand across the chains for FRAX.”
The move will facilitate more FRAX based transactions on those blockchains and create greater demand for their layer 1 tokens, Kazemian said. Layer 1, or base, tokens are the native assets of individual blockchains, such as Ethereum, Avalanche, or Terra.
FRAX is most dominant on Ethereum at writing time, with over $2.2 billion worth of value locked. It is present on several other blockchains, meaning the company is likely to buy Avalanche’s AVAX, Binance Chain’s BNB, Fantom’s FTM and Solana’s SOL in the coming months to back the FRAX that circulates on those chains.
In addition, FRAX will be “backed by an extremely diverse range of crypto assets,” Kazemian pointed out. Some will generate cash flow while others will be on-chain loans that accumulate interest.
That will help protect against a change in the dynamics of the broader market, such as a drop in the bitcoin price that could hit other tokens and affect Frax’s reserves.
Loans held outside of crypto protocols could also act as a hedge against crypto market downturns.
“We are also exploring real-world asset loans so that there is cash flow countercyclically from crypto bear markets,” Kazemian said. “FRAX closely resembles a central bank which needs a balance sheet that is on aggregate valuable under all market conditions.""
Frax's approach differs from the one adopted by the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a non-profit that started buying billions of dollars worth of bitcoin (BTC) in March as a reserve backing for UST stablecoins, one of the two assets of the Terra protocol.
They aren’t competing, however. Terra and Frax teamed up last week to create the “4pool,” a liquidity pool on stablecoin swap service Curve Finance. The pool is composed of two algorithmic stablecoins, UST and FRAX, and two centralized stablecoins, USDC and USDT, and aims to become the most-liquid offering for traders on Curve.
Curve is the biggest decentralized finance platform on Ethereum, with over $21 billion in value locked. At the time of this writing, “tricrypto2” was the largest Ethereum-based pool on Curve by value locked, holding more than $78 million of USDT, wrapped bitcoin and wrapped ether.
UPDATE (April 8, 8:51 UTC): Corrects spelling of Kazemian."
11,79,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/18/tethers-paolo-ardoino-on-ust-its-all-fun-and-games-until-youre-a-100b-coin/,Tether's Paolo Ardoino on UST: 'It's All Fun and Games' Until You're a $100B Coin,The algorithmic stablecoin's growth has surpassed its larger rivals.,2022-04-18,"The fast-growing popularity of the TerraUSD stablecoin comes with some risk because of its dependence on algorithms to hold its dollar peg.
“It’s all fun and games if you’re a $5 [billion] or $10 billion market cap stablecoin,” Tether Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino said in an interview with CoinDesk at the Paris Blockchain Week Summit. But that can change the bigger that stablecoin's market cap gets.
UST is now the third-biggest stablecoin on the market after Tether's USDT and Circle's USD coin (USDC), which are still significantly larger in terms of market cap. However, the native stablecoin of the Terra ecosystem has grown rapidly, from $180 million at the beginning of 2021 to over $17 billion in market capitalization as of April 18.
Terraform Labs is the organization behind the UST stablecoin and its LUNA token.
UST keeps its $1 dollar value by using a smart contract-based algorithm to keep the price of UST anchored to $1 by permanently destroying LUNA tokens in order to mint create UST tokens.
As Ardoino sees it, “If you have a liquidation [with an algorithmic stablecoin of UST's size] with this market, you can still handle that. But imagine if you have a $80 [billion] or $100 billion market cap stablecoin like tether that’s [primarily] backed by digital assets. It’s really hard to predict what will happen and [know] if there will be enough liquidity to backstop that immense cascade.”
Why is he even noticing UST considering USDT and USDC are so much bigger, at a market cap of $82 billion and $49 billion, respectively? Maybe because UST has been quickly gaining on the stablecoin leaders, growing 138-fold in 2021.
But with the rewards come risks. Researchers have noted their concerns about algorithmic stablecoins, and some in the crypto community are particularly worried about LUNA. Because of the way the Terra ecosystem is designed, strong market volatility poses a major threat to UST's peg, these researchers say.
Another concern could be that over 67% of the demand for UST comes from Anchor Protocol.
The Anchor protocol, a decentralized savings protocol based on the Terra blockchain, offers a comparably high yield of 19.5% on UST deposits. Terra must therefore maintain that yield. If it doesn’t, UST holders could rapidly try to sell their tokens. In turn, that could raise the risk that there’s not enough liquidity in the market for everyone to exit at the same time, some analysts and traders have argued.
Terra did not immediately respond to a request for comment by CoinDesk.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
UST is not the only stablecoin that concerns investors. Ardoino’s own company, Tether, the issuer of the largest stablecoin by market cap, has been the subject of questions about whether it has enough collateral to back the 1:1 dollar peg of USDT.
UST’s growth has also left some crypto traders worried about the future stability of the stablecoin and the risks it poses to the whole crypto market.
But as for Ardoino, “I wish them well.”"
12,105,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/19/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-struggles-as-dollar-breaks-multi-year-bearish-trendline/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Struggles as Dollar Breaks Multi-Year Bearish Trend Line,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for April 19, 2022.",2022-04-19,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin bounce stalls, dollar breaks multi-decade bearish trend line.
Featured Story: The fast-growing popularity of the TerraUSD stablecoin comes with some risk.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Matthew Sigel, head of digital assets research, VanEck
Tigran Gambaryan, vice president of global intelligence and investigations, Binance
Joshua Ellul, director, Centre for Distributed Ledger Technology
By Omkar Godbole
While bitcoin has held vital support, the cryptocurrency does not appear to be out of the woods yet, given the continued strength of the U.S. dollar.
The top cryptocurrency by market value traded near $40,700 at press time, having printed a high of $41,250 during the Asian trading hours. On Monday, buyers held the three-day chart 200-period moving average, staving off a major technical breakdown.
The dollar index (DXY), which tracks the greenback's value against majors, rose to 101 early today, refreshing two-year highs and taking the month-to-date gain to 2.5%. The global reserve currency has risen 12% since May 2021, marking its best stretch since its run-up in late 2014 through early 2015, per data provided by charting platform TradingView.
The DXY may see further gains, as the monthly chart shows the two-decade bearish trendline has been breached to the upside.
""We’ve been warning that USD strength is one of the biggest headwinds for markets, including BTC and crypto. As BTC struggles to keep its head above $40K, the U.S. dollar index (DXY) just broke 100 for the first time in almost two years,"" analysts at Delphi Digital wrote in a note published Monday. ""The greenback is now on the verge of a multi-decade breakout as two of its major currency pairs (EUR and JPY) are both vulnerable of technical breakdowns of their own. The EUR and JPY make up ~70% of the DXY index.""
""Looking back over the last 10 years, we can see how BTC’s price tends to trend in the opposite direction of DXY momentum. In other words, when the dollar is gaining momentum, BTC underperforms (and vice versa),"" Delphi's analysts added.
Ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market value, traded flat at around $3,050, having tested dip demand under the psychological support of $3,000 yesterday. The cryptocurrency has seen increased demand for December call options in recent weeks.
""Ethereum is caught between two powerful colliding forces: (declining on-chain activity + market correlation) vs. (institutional adoption + Web3),"" Ilan Solot, partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email. ""The latter will prove a secular shift, while the former is merely a cyclical dynamic. These cyclical forces are coiling ETH ever tighter into a spring.""
While top cryptocurrencies traded sideways, Terra's LUNA and privacy-focused monero (XMR) chalked up double-digit gains. Terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST replaced Binance USD (BUSD) as the third-largest stablecoin by circulation during the later hours of Monday. Monero is set to implement a hard fork in July to improve network security and fee changes, developers confirmed in a GitHub post.
Ethereum Foundation Holds $1.3B in Ether, $300M in Non-Crypto Investments
Silvergate Bank's Q1 Net Income Nearly Doubles to $24.7M
Metaverse Startup The Sandbox Looks to Raise $400M at $4B Valuation: Report
Crypto Exchange KuCoin Launches $100M Fund for NFT Creators
Privacy Focused Monero Plans Hard Fork in July; XMR Surges 11% on ‘Monerun’
Ireland's Political Parties to Be Banned From Accepting Crypto: Report
Indian Crypto Exchange CoinDCX Raises Over $135M in New Funding Round
UK Crypto Industry Hopes for More Clarity From Planned Stablecoin Rules
BNB Chain to Burn Over $740M Worth of BNB Tokens
Terra’s LUNA Surges 17% as UST Becomes Third Largest Stablecoin
Blockchain.com Could Look at an IPO as Early as This Year: Report
By Helene Braun
The fast-growing popularity of the TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin comes with some risk because of its dependence on algorithms to hold its dollar peg.
“It’s all fun and games if you’re a $5 [billion] or $10 billion market cap stablecoin,” Tether Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino said in an interview with CoinDesk at the Paris Blockchain Week Summit. But that can change the bigger that stablecoin's market cap gets.
UST is now the third-biggest stablecoin on the market after Tether's USDT and Circle's USD coin (USDC), which are still significantly larger in terms of market cap. However, the native stablecoin of the Terra ecosystem has grown rapidly, from $180 million at the beginning of 2021 to over $17 billion in market capitalization as of April 18. Read The Full Story Here
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
13,80,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/22/bailout-fund-backstop-or-bouncy-ball-heres-how-lfgs-bitcoin-reserve-might-work/,"Bailout Fund, Backstop or Bouncy Ball? Here's How LFG's Bitcoin 'Reserve' Might Work","Developers of the fast-growing UST stablecoin say the coin's $1 value peg isn't ""backed"" by anything – just a blockchain-based algorithm. So why does it need a multibillion-dollar bitcoin reserve in case of an emergency? How would that work?",2022-04-22,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) has been making headlines over the past month as one of the biggest bitcoin (BTC) buyers for a new ""reserve,"" seemingly appearing out of nowhere to scoop up $1.7 billion of the largest cryptocurrency by market value.
But what is the LFG reserve's purpose, and for what would it use the bitcoin?
According to LFG's website, the reserve is set up to support the Terra ecosystem – a blockchain-based project focused around a dollar-pegged stablecoin known as UST and a cryptocurrency called LUNA.
Do Kwon, co-founder of Terraforms Labs and the project's leader, described LFG in a tweet as a “decentralized [foreign exchange] reserve” for UST. According to LFG's website, Kwon serves as director and founding member of the LFG organization.
The matter starts to get confusing, though, because the token's design as an ""algorithmic stablecoin"" means UST is ""not backed or collateralized by bitcoin or any other asset,"" according to a Terraform Labs spokesperson.
So it's a ""reserve"" for UST – but not backing UST?
With little in writing from LFG to explain how the reserve works, some analysts are drawing their own interpretations.
“To me the LFG reserve is something between an insurance policy and a backstop of last resort,” said Felix Hartmann, head of Florida hedge fund Hartmann Capital. ""It is a psychological backstop, similar to FDIC, to comfort people that this in fact is not a house of cards.” FDIC stands for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures U.S. bank deposits.
At the core of the matter are crucial questions about fast-growing crypto markets: Will these computer code-based projects built on blockchains actually work on their own without external support, and are they truly decentralized?
Read more: ‘Built to Fail’? Why TerraUSD’s Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares
As the industry has developed, stablecoins have taken two forms: The biggest, like tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC), say they're backed by enough assets that will guarantee that each token is worth at least $1.
But a new breed of ""algorithmic stablecoins"" like UST exist as ""protocols"" – basically lines of programming on a blockchain that supposedly will assure the token stays pegged at $1. (The stablecoin is officially known as terraUSD but also goes by UST, its trading symbol.)
Even so, many early versions of algorithmic stablecoins have crashed – Beanstalk being the latest. So questions have arisen about how sustainable UST's growth might be, with a market capitalization that grew by $15 billion in five months. It now stands as the third-largest stablecoin.
The new reserve might serve to address any gaps in the confidence. Kwon has hinted that purchases will not stop until the reserves reach $10 billion, saying that “BTC reserves will open a new monetary era of the Bitcoin standard.”
LFG describes certain elements of the ""UST reserve protocol"" on its website, but how it would work – or under what circumstances it might kick in – isn't completely spelled out.
According to the website, LFG is a ""nonprofit organization established in the Republic of Singapore dedicated to creating and providing greater economic sovereignty, security, and sustainability of open-source software and applications that help build and promote a truly decentralized economy.""
It might be no coincidence that ""LFG"" is a widely used acronym in crypto lingo to express enthusiasm or optimism for a trade. It stands for ""Let's f**king go.""
CoinDesk asked the Terraform Labs spokesperson if there was anything detailed in writing about the LFG reserve that officials could provide, and she referred us to a March 23 proposal on Terra’s research platform,from a trading firm called Jump Trading, which also happens to be Jump Crypto’s parent company, a lead investor in the LFG project.
It gets complicated – real fast – but the idea in the proposal is that the reserve would provide an additional leg to stabilize UST’s price if it falls way below the peg.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Under the Jump Trading proposal, which has yet to get the green light, LFG would transfer the UST reserve assets to a dedicated reserve pool.
This reserve would be accessible only in “emergencies but not otherwise,” according to the proposal.
The suggested threshold was $0.98 – i.e., if things deteriorated to the point where traders were willing to exchange $1 of UST coins for 98 cents of bitcoin – a 2% downward deviation from the $1 peg. Such a level, according to Jump Trading, would ""prevent the fund from being utilized for ordinary movements in the price of UST in favor of extraordinary movements only.”
But if the emergency conditions actually materialized, retail investors could swap their UST for bitcoin (or other assets in reserve pool) at a discount.
The proposal doesn't say this specifically, but ostensibly the mechanism would establish a price floor for UST, and buyers would step in if price falls below $0.98.
“It creates demand for UST by arbitrageurs who can buy UST at, say, $0.97 and convert it for BTC at $0.98,"" said Jordi Alexander, chief investment officer of Selini Capital. “This should create a more hard floor at $0.98 and prevent a cataclysmic redemption flow into LUNA because at that point, say, UST was going to $0.97, people would arbitrage the price back up.”
Theoretically, the price floor for UST would help to restore the coin's market value back to the $1 peg.
Dustin Teander, an analyst at the crypto research and data firm Messari, said that “in the same way a gym floor provides a firm surface for a basketball to bounce, the reserves provide UST a price floor to bounce off of.”
When the crisis passes, the reserve pool drains its UST holding by letting traders purchase UST at the $1 peg with BTC.
“Can $2 billion in reserves really protect $17 billion of stablecoin from collapsing? Of course not. But it is a psychological backstop to comfort people that this in fact is not a house of cards,” said Hartmann.
The proposal is still in the feedback process on Agora, the research forum of Terraform Labs where users can discuss governance and development initiatives.
“The proposal process on Agora is for eliciting feedback and calibrating the design before moving forward with the specs for the BTC Reserve. Currently, bridging solutions are being explored for adding BTC to the Reserve, and a timeline for the launch of the Reserve is still TBD [to be decided],” Terraform Labs spokesperson told CoinDesk in a statement.
“As of now, the proposal is being built out – not by Jump, but by other partners of Terra – before being presented again to the community,” Nihar Shah, a researcher at Jump Crypto, Jump Trading's filial said in an email.
LFG didn’t return requests for comment.
All of this would just be another in-the-weeds explanation of the rules of a complex blockchain protocol – a dime a dozen in crypto – if it weren't for the fact that so much money was at stake.
Terra’s UST toppled Binance USD as the third-largest stablecoin behind Tether’s USDT and Circle’s USDC because its circulating supply has grown nearly tenfold over the past year to a whopping $17 billion. The price of LUNA, UST’s sister token that absorbs the stablecoin’s price swings, exploded to $95 from $13 a year ago.
The fast growth has raised concerns that a collapse of the UST peg might trigger systemic failures in crypto markets. LUNA's market capitalization is just over $70 billion. Bitcoin's is $770 billion.
“A late implosion of LUNA would be catastrophic for the space,” bringing down the industry into a “cold, bitter, long winter,” Galois Capital argued in a tweet.
The steady rise is mainly fueled by Anchor, a decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol built on top of the Terra blockchain, which currently holds more than half of the total supply of UST, some $9.5 billion – locked up on the platform, thanks to a tempting 19.5% annual yield that savers can reap on their UST deposits.
Yield-hungry depositors flocked to Anchor, fueling the demand for UST, but the platform’s revenue can’t keep up with yield payout and it already needed a $450 million bailout in February.
As long as UST grows via demand-creating schemes such as Anchor’s subsidized yields, the algorithmic peg seems to hold fine. But what happens if the “only-up” market ends and demand dwindles?
Jump Trading’s proposal assumes robust private markets and liquidity for UST, while one of the main criticisms of algorithmic stablecoins is their constant need to generate demand; otherwise, they break the peg and collapse.
In a research paper, Ryan Clements, chair in business law and regulation at the University of Calgary, argued that algorithmic stablecoins must generate a perpetual demand in the underlying ecosystem and the arbitrage mechanism to remain stable. Translation: The $1 pegging mechanism for UST might not hold if traders who help to maintain the system were to lose confidence, and back away altogether.
“Perpetual demand, and reliance on arbitrage, is not certain because of 'step-back' risk,” Clements told CoinDesk in email. Step-back risk refers to an event when trust in an algorithmic stablecoin evaporates and investors lose interest in executing the arbitrage to stabilize the price, so the stablecoin drifts into a death spiral.
Read more: The Risks Behind LUNA-UST Stablecoin, According to a Bearish Academic
There is no shortage of examples for that. Beanstalk Farms, an Ethereum-based stablecoin protocol, was exploited for $182 million in a hack on April 17, and its BEAN token collapsed to $0.03 from the $1 peg after the attack. In July 2021, Iron Finance’s stablecoin, which was partially asset-backed and also pegged algorithmically, imploded when investors panic-sold its sister token, TITAN.
Clements cited various potential threats to the stability of UST. For example, Anchor may not be able to sustain its current high yield and depositors flee, a sell-off in bitcoin might transmit volatility to UST, or trading activity may not be sufficient to replenish the reserves.
LUNA has already had a close encounter with losing its peg. When the crypto market crashed in May 2021, UST briefly dropped to $0.87 and LUNA collapsed to $4 from $20.
If only LUNA can absorb the price deviation of UST, selling LUNA for UST makes the situation worse. So, having billions of dollars worth of bitcoin in reserve can counteract the downward spiral in price.
“It should materially reduce the risk of a catastrophic failure. Not to zero, of course,” Dragonfly Capital Managing Partner Haseeb Qureshi said.
The reserve was not part of the Terra blockchain protocol’s original design, nor are there any mentions in the white paper that Terra would need any other assets – apart from the UST and LUNA used in the algorithm – to maintain the peg.
“LFG's backstop of BTC reserves turns UST into something closer to Celo's model, which is a mix of seigniorage shares with crypto collateral,” Qureshi said. Celo’s stablecoins are partially backed by assets and an algorithm adjusting its supply.
Can UST claim to be decentralized? Analysts are split.
“The fact that [Terraform Labs] needs a centralized entity (LFG) to inject capital, purchase reserves and continually take actions to strengthen the underlying Terra ecosystem (and create more and more use cases for UST) seriously calls into question the 'decentralized' assertion of Terra,” said Clements.
By contrast, Messari’s Teander said UST would remain decentralized through the whole process.
“The BTC only practically comes into the equation once the Jump proposal is implemented, and when it does, it will be controlled in a decentralized protocol, not the centralized LFG organization,” he said.
Jordi Alexander of Selini Capital said that it takes many steps for a crypto project to get to decentralization.
“I see it like a parent having a child,” Alexander said. “You first give birth to them and have to guide them through childhood and education years by supporting and making decisions, until eventually when they are adults and ready to leave the house. If you have done a good job they will manage to be successfully independent without you.”
UPDATE (19:45 UTC): This update includes statement about the status and prospective launch of the proposal from Terraform Labs spokesperson."
14,122,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/22/built-to-fail-why-terrausds-growth-is-giving-finance-experts-nightmares/,‘Built to Fail’? Why TerraUSD’s Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares,"The Terra/Luna blockchain is growing at a blinding pace. At its heart, according to some critics, is a ticking time bomb.",2022-04-22,"Late on Monday, April 18, the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) edged out Binance’s BUSD to become the third-largest stablecoin by market cap. There are now nearly $18 billion UST in circulation. That’s well below the nearly $50 billion total for Circle’s USDC, or the $82 billion worth of Tether’s USDT roaming the Earth.
But UST is also much different from those competitors, in ways that could make it incredibly risky.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here. Michael Casey is away.
Stablecoins are tokens tracked by a blockchain, but in contrast to assets like bitcoin (BTC), they’re intended to consistently match the buying power of a fiat currency, most often the U.S. dollar. Stablecoins were first created to give active crypto traders a tool for moving quickly between more volatile positions, though as we’ll see, the potential for big interest rates on loans has also helped attract capital.
USDT and USDC are so-called “backed” or collateralized stablecoins. They keep their 1:1 dollar “peg” because they are (ostensibly) backed by bank accounts holding dollars, or by other dollar equivalent assets, for which tokens can be redeemed – although Tether has been notoriously reticent to specify the nature of its reserves.
UST, by contrast, began life as what’s known as an “algorithmic” stablecoin. These could also be referred to as “decentralized” stablecoins because decentralization is their primary reason for existing. A collateralized stablecoin like USDT or USDC is reliant on banks and traditional markets. That makes them in turn subject to regulation, enforcement and ultimately, censorship of transactions. Circle and Tether are run by centralized corporate entities with the ability to blacklist users and even seize their funds. Both systems have done this, sometimes at government behest.
In principle, algorithmic stablecoins like UST don’t have this censorship risk because they are not run by centralized corporate structures and do not hold backing in traditional institutions like banks. Of course, in reality “decentralization” is relative, and most such systems today still have key men, such as Do Kwon at Terraform Labs, or affiliated organizations that provide labor and funding. Whatever a system’s “decentralized” branding, regulators can still go after such public targets, a risk that’s worth keeping in mind.
Instead of being backed by assets like dollars or bonds, algorithmic stablecoins are intended to maintain their dollar peg by what looks to some like financial alchemy. But experts are highly skeptical that these systems’ designers have actually figured out how to turn lead into gold.
Broadly, algorithmic stablecoins rely on a pair of tokens, both created ex nihilo at the token’s launch. One token is the stablecoin itself – terraUSD, frax, neutrinoUSD – and the other is the corresponding “balancer token” ­– LUNA, FXS or WAVES, respectively. Generally, the balancer token can be “burned,” or destroyed, to create more of the corresponding stablecoin.
The defining algorithm in an “algorithmic stablecoin” is a function that changes the amount of the balancer token required to create the stablecoin. This changing burn value is intended to create arbitrage opportunities for traders: gaps between the price of the balancer token and the stablecoin that they can profit from, but that also drive the price of the stablecoin toward its peg. In principle, this would attract profit-motivated traders to drive the stablecoin back to $1 whenever the peg wavered.
The nuances of these systems vary, but it doesn’t take much financial expertise to see reason for skepticism. Let’s hear it from an expert anyway.
“You have a two-token system and one token has no intrinsic value, it’s only derived from secondary trading value, and the other token is supposed to be a stable token, and you have an arbitrage,” wonders Ryan Clements, an assistant professor of Business Law at the University of Calgary. “At some point you look at the one with no intrinsic value and you think, why is this worth $5?”
Clements’ past research has focused on arbitrage risks and instability in exchange-traded funds, where there can be a similar disconnect between the price of a synthetic asset and that of its underlying components. Last year, Clements published a paper about algorithmic stablecoins called “Built to Fail,” arguing that the systems are inherently fragile and can never be truly “stable.” (Note that MakerDAO’s DAI is a bit of an outlier with some unique design features, and these critiques don’t necessarily apply to it.)
Clements argues the theory behind algorithmic stablecoins relies on three specific flawed assumptions. An algorithmic stablecoin, he writes, can only function when three conditions are met at all times:
There is a “support level of demand” for the stablecoin and/or balancer token
There’s a permanent supply of independent actors to perform price-stabilizing arbitrage
A market has near-perfect information to trade on
But Clements argues these assumptions break down frequently, particularly during times of instability.
One clear sign of this, according to Kevin Zhou of hedge fund Galois Capital, is that the teams behind algorithmic stablecoins sometimes have to essentially step in and do the balancing arbitrage themselves.
“Some of these algo [systems] are market-making,” says Zhou. “I don’t know if it’s them directly, or they give a loan to a market maker to maintain the peg.”
There’s even clearer evidence from algos that have already collapsed, most notably Iron Finance, which unwound in a “death spiral” in June 2021. As Novum Alpha CEO Patrick Tan explained the Iron Finance unwind at the time, “The speed at which [balancer token] TITAN started to fall caused [supposed stablecoin] IRON to lose its peg, allowing traders to redeem IRON, which was priced at US$0.90 as the peg started to slip, for US$0.75 in stablecoin and US$0.25 in TITAN.” The system’s stablecoin and balancer tokens have both since dropped to near zero.
Similar opportunities for profit can emerge whenever an algorithmic stablecoin slips too far from its peg. Once the arbitrage emerges, it becomes self-perpetuating and self-accelerating. Without outside intervention, it is an unavoidable death sentence.
The team behind LUNA/UST seem to agree with the idea that such systems can’t work. They don’t say so out loud, but they’ve made a variety of efforts to add more stability into the system, and those efforts have accelerated alongside UST’s growth.
It is important to note the terraUSD stablecoin is the central function of the entire Luna layer 1 blockchain, which also has general smart-contract functionality. Luna also has a variety of other tools and functions, including the Anchor lending platform, non-fungible tokens (NFT), initial coin offerings (ICO) and the like. The strategy here, as laid out by Luna bull José Maria Macedo of Delphi Digital on a recent episode of the “Bankless” podcast, is that demand for these tools will provide another source of support for the price of LUNA and, in turn, improve the stability of UST.
Clements acknowledged this ecosystem play makes UST the algorithmic stablecoin that “seems to have the most logical potential for stability.” But, he said, “I don’t think an ecosystem play is nearly as stable as something like USDC.”
The biggest question mark in the ecosystem, according to Clements and others, is Anchor. Anchor has attracted nearly $16 billion of deposits of LUNA, wrapped ETH (backed by actual ether that’s tied up on the Ethereum chain) and, above all, UST usually “bonded” (or locked) for long periods of time. This provides stability by preventing the sale of a large chunk of UST.
The problem is the deposit demand is essentially an illusion. Anchor provides 20% APY on locked deposits, but that rate isn’t profitable for the system: The current APR being offered to borrowers is just 11.81%. A lender is only sustainable if it collects more interest on its loans than it pays out to deposits.
That gap between lender and borrower APY is covered by a reserve fund that has been draining rapidly as the amount locked in Anchor grows. Moreover, even at 11.81%, lending demand seems light: With $15.5 billion locked in Anchor, only $3.2 billion of loans are outstanding, according to data provider DeFiLlama.
“All the UST in Anchor is just rotator capital, farming for the subsidized yield,” said Zhou. “Rotator capital” means money that is moved rapidly from one protocol to another in search of high yield (what Wall Streeters used to call “hot money”). If Anchor’s yield drops below the competition, there could be a significant rush to the exits, during which “rotators” in the staking pool would look to unload their LUNA and UST.
That seems practically inevitable because there isn’t an infinite amount of money to pour into the reserve fund. As soon as that financial nitroglycerin runs out, it could create the conditions for a depegging of terraUSD.
But the people behind Luna have come up with an answer to that, too. Starting in February, the affiliated Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) began purchasing bitcoin to create a further backstop for TerraUSD. The LFG reserve, including bitcoin and other assets, now totals about $2.3 billion.
It’s still unclear how this reserve will actually wind up working. The BTC is still held by LFG, not by the luna/terraUSD protocol. Debate is currently ongoing in the Luna community over proposals for integrating a second, different kind of reserve asset into the previously purely algorithmic system. The broad contours of the proposals, however, all involve an automated and arbitrage-incentivized mechanism that would open swaps from UST to BTC when the UST peg wavers.
There are two reasons to wonder whether this is a real solution. First, it doesn’t change the basic math of UST’s exit liquidity in a crisis. According to Zhou, the total of all non-LUNA reserves and all UST being used in applications on the Luna chain only amounts to about $3 billion, against $18 billion in stablecoins outstanding.
“So there’s about $14 billion that needs to exit through luna in a compression or unwind,” said Zhou. That kind of selling pressure would likely drive down the price of luna itself dramatically, he argued, essentially blocking all the exits at the exact moment the building is on fire. “On a full unwind, some people are going to be left holding the bag, either in terraUSD that is depegged, or in hyperinflated luna that has no bid.”
But it might be even worse than that. What if building a BTC reserve actually increases the likelihood of a bank run?
“This could create an incentive (effectively an economic moral hazard) to utilize strategies to acquire discounted BTC,” Clements says of the plan. Such a coordinated, intentional attack could look similar to George Soros’s legendary attack on the British pound. The Bank of England spent more than 3.3 billion pounds countertrading to defend the pound’s peg against other European currencies, but ultimately failed.
Attacking a pegged asset could be described as an attempt to acquire the backing assets at a discount, by forcing a fire sale of the collateral. Especially given that BTC is a harder asset and generally superior money to LUNA/UST (and if it isn’t, it’s not much of a reserve asset), it is nearly a law of nature that LUNA or UST holders will seek to transform those tokens into BTC.
The sharks may already be circling.
“There’s a lot of incentive to attack the peg, especially for people outside the [crypto] space,” said Zhou. “There’s a lot of these Chicago [traders], they don’t give a [damn]. If they see an opportunity, they’re going to Soros-attack it. They’re just waiting for the right moment … I think [UST] will collapse on its own, but if someone attacks it, it will collapse even faster.”
There are other concerns, both with the BTC reserve plan and terraUSD’s basic structure. For instance, one aspect of a leading proposal for the reserve would rely on offering traders arbitrage incentives to replenish the BTC reserves once a crisis has passed. That’s perfectly sensible from a decentralization perspective, since in the long term you don’t want to rely on outside groups like LFG.
“But what happens if there isn't enough trading activity to replenish the [BTC] reserves outside of crises?” asks Clements. “This is another ongoing vulnerability, in my opinion.”
An even more fundamental question may be exactly how much leash regulators will give Do Kwon and his fellow travelers. The various capital injections and reserve restructurings make it clear there’s not much that’s “decentralized” about luna/terraUSD. At $18 billion, terraUSD is far from a systemic risk for mainstream finance, but continued growth could certainly invite the proverbial Eye of Sauron.
And while it’s not a big worry for Wall Street, luna/terraUSD could be a systemic risk to the cryptosphere. Do Kwon has said he would like to grow the system’s BTC holdings to $10 billion. But if that reserve is integrated in the wrong way, it could create the conditions for a future sudden flood of BTC for sale if the peg is attacked or breaks under market strain.
“Could the utilization of the bitcoin reserve transmit volatility across the crypto ecosystem?” Clements asked on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.” “It would seem obvious that it could.”
So while Iron Finance sank alone, terraUSD could drag others down with it."
15,313,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/25/first-mover-asia-slow-start-to-the-week-for-crypto-as-china-lockdowns-drag-on-stocks-sp-500/,"First Mover Asia: Slow Start to the Week for Crypto as China Lockdowns Drag on Stocks, S&P 500","Major equity markets in Asia have declined significantly in recent months, and bitcoin has followed a similar pattern.",2022-04-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: In a slow but surprisingly volatile session, bitcoin fell to a six-week low around $38,200 before quickly recovering back above $40,000.
Insights: Crypto had a slow start to the week in Asia amid ongoing fears about COVID-19 lockdowns in China.
Technician's take: BTC's price range could persist for another week.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $40,485 +2.4%
Ether (ETH): $3,016 +3%
Bitcoin recovers after dipping to six-week low.
By Angelique Chen
Bitcoin (BTC), after a big price swing over the past week, traded earlier Monday at its lowest point since mid-March but quickly recovered.
As of press time the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was up 2.4% in the past 24 hours, trading at $40,485. Earlier, the bitcoin price fell as low as $38,202, the lowest in almost six weeks.
“Recent volatility has been driven by factors such as inflation, the Ukraine crisis as well as contractionary monetary policies,” said Daniel Khoo, research analyst at Nansen. “This has affected not only the stock market but also the crypto market, which seems to follow in tandem recently.”
Khoo said the fall in prices could be driven by the short-term negative sentiment as people go risk-off on volatile assets. “Many investors are also shifting towards [stablecoins] given the uncertainty and short-term bearish outlook, as the market has become too hot and periods of extreme euphoria were followed by market corrections historically,” Khoo said.
Ether (ETH) was up 0.87% in the past 24 hours, trading at $2,972. U.S. stocks were mixed as China’s Covid restrictions stiffened, with the S&P 500 Index down 0.7% and the Nasdaq up 0.2%.
S&P 500: +0.6%
DJIA: +0.7%
Nasdaq: +1.3%
Gold: $1,899, -1.8%
Slow Start to the Week for Crypto in Asia
Bitcoin’s correlation with the stock market has created a circular economy with China – even though trading the asset is officially banned in the country.
As lockdowns continue in Shanghai with possible expansions elsewhere, the CSE 300, a benchmark index of the 300 largest stocks in China, was down 3% while the Hang Seng Index, Hong Kong’s stock index, dropped 2%.
Year to date, the Hang Seng Index is down nearly 15%, the CSE 300 down 22% and the SP 500 down 11%.
This continued decline in China stocks has now reversed gains made in March when the government pledged to support the market to fight off a double-whammy of U.S. threats to de-list China stocks and continued COVID-19 fears.
The S&P ended last week down 2.7%, partly due to China’s uncertain macroeconomic environment.
Bitcoin, in turn, fell 1% during Monday’s Asia trading day, and pushed further down throughout Monday trading in the U.S. At time of writing, it was up 2.4% to $40,485. Metaverse major Axie Infinity shaved 10% off its value during trading on Monday in Asia while NEAR and NEO, tokens associated with layer 1 blockchains, declined 10% and 9.3%, respectively.
So as the stock indexes of the world’s largest economy nervously watch those in the world’s second-largest to see how this next and hopefully final chapter in the coronavirus plays out, bitcoin is caught in the middle.
It is a reversal, mind you, from March when it was China markets moving up and U.S. stocks staying flat. Bitcoin didn’t follow the trend because it trades in response to U.S. movement – but now the ""circular economy"" of China bringing down the U.S. market has in turn brought down bitcoin in this session.
Bitcoin Holding Support Above $37K; Resistance at $43K
Bitcoin (BTC) is stabilizing after a 3% decline over the past week. Short-term buyers have returned around the $37,500 support level, although resistance at $43,000 could stall an upswing in price.
Momentum signals remain neutral on the charts, which typically precedes a period of range-bound price action, similar to what occurred between May and July of last year.
BTC is roughly two weeks away from registering a countertrend bullish signal, per the DeMARK indicators. If confirmed, buyers could begin to accumulate ahead of a seasonally strong period in May.
Still, bearish signals on the monthly chart suggests limited upside for BTC beyond the $50,966 resistance level.
Crypto Bahamas conference with investors, developers and other blockchain leaders
Visa second-quarter earnings
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): New Zealand credit card spending (YoY/March)
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. durable goods orders (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""Word on the BlocK"" on CoinDesk TV:
Kristin Smith: Shaping the Future of Crypto
Will China beat the U.S. to the first central bank digital currency? How soon might we see the first digital dollar? And what’s the role played by dollar-backed stablecoins playing in the current financial system? How are policymakers and regulators in the U.S. shaping the crypto story? Kristin Smith, executive director of the Blockchain Association, answers all these questions and more in conversation with Forkast’s Angie Lau.
Dogecoin Surges Nearly 9% Amid Reports That Twitter Will Accept Musk's Takeover Offer: Futures of Twitter (TWTR) trading in Frankfurt also jumped 6.48%.
Kraken Receives UAE License to Operate as a Regulated Crypto Exchange: The exchange joins several counterparts plotting moves to or gaining licenses in the United Arab Emirates.
Kevin O'Leary on Clean Bitcoin Mining, the Elon Musk-Twitter Conundrum: The future of the crypto mining industry is likely nuclear and hydro, the “Shark Tank” co-host said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.”
‘Built to Fail’? Why TerraUSD’s Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares: The Terra blockchain is growing at a blinding pace. At its heart, according to some critics, is a ticking time bomb.
Matthew Ball: Metaverse Man: Will we call it the metaverse and what will we do there? A leading expert weighs in.
But Exchanges, What Low Volumes You Have!: Even though bitcoin’s price is range-bound and crypto exchange volumes are at yearly lows, there is no reason to worry … yet.
Today's crypto explainer: Can the Bitcoin Network Scale?
Other voices: Crypto boom opens door to a new class of landlords (CNBC)
""[Reginald] Fowler’s downfall was nearly inevitable – not just because he was in bed with bad people, but because he himself seems short on both ethics and competence."" (CoinDesk Columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""This persistent, simmering crisis around energy, its cost and the politics around it will not end soon. [Russian President] Vladimir Putin has escalated this crisis. His invasion of Ukraine has pushed up prices and forced Europe — until now the largest importer of Russian natural gas — to begin an attempt to end its longstanding dependence on Russian gas. But Mr. Putin didn’t cause this crisis alone."" (University of Cambridge Professor Helen Thompson for The New York Times) ... ""The lack of options has made Russian emigrés worldwide look beyond traditional payment systems. For at least a few, cryptocurrency has proven to be a serviceable, if kludgy, alternative. It's not easy to use but anyone can use it, regardless of location or nationality. These Russians have been using crypto as a last resort at the same time as Ukraine has raised over $100 million in crypto donations to fund weapons and supplies for the army, humanitarian aid, evacuation and other things people desperately need during the war."" (CoinDesk reporter Anna Baydakova)"
16,311,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/25/first-mover-americas-the-bitcoin-death-cross/,First Mover Americas: The Bitcoin Death Cross,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for April 25, 2022.",2022-04-25,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Risk-off drives bitcoin lower. The cryptocurrency's three-day chart shows an impending death cross.
Chartist's Corner: ‘Built to Fail?’ Why TerraUSD’s growth is giving finance experts nightmares.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Sergey Vasylchuk, founder and CEO, Everstake
Maxim Galash, CEO, Coinchange
Dan Jeffries, managing director, AI Infrastructure Alliance
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin's bear market has plenty of steam left. That's the message from an impending death cross on the lesser-followed three-day chart, where each candle represents 72 hours.
The death cross occurs when the 50-candle simple moving average (SMA) crosses below the 200-candle SMA. Aficionados of technical analysis consider the ominously sounding chart pattern a warning of a more profound price drop.
And while its predictive powers are constantly questioned, given it is based on backward-looking moving averages, its past record on the three-day chart as a doom indicator is perfect.
Bitcoin's stalled bear market resumed with prices falling by more than 40% in the weeks following the confirmation of the death cross on the three-day chart in mid-November 2018. Similar price action was observed following the death cross of mid-December 2014.
Notably, bitcoin (BTC) bottomed out a month later on both occasions. In other words, the post-death cross sell-off marked the final legs of the then-bear markets.
So, if history is a guide, bitcoin could be in for another round of beating before prospects turn bright.
Risk-off
Bitcoin dropped to $38,300 early Monday as renewed coronavirus outbreak in China threatened to worsen the high inflation-low growth situation facing the global economy. Ether (ETH) followed suit, dropping to $2,800 at one point, the lowest since mid-March.
Bitcoin's implied volatility, or expectations for price turbulence, spiked on aggressive options buying.
That was expected, given the implied volatility looked cheap compared to its historical standards and lifetime average. The implied volatility is mean-reverting. Therefore, savvy traders buy options when the implied volatility is cheap and sell when it is expensive.
Shiba Inu Owners Flock to Burn Portal With 11B Tokens Removed
Crypto Becomes Lifeline for Russian Emigrés Opposing Putin’s War in Ukraine
Crypto Payments: When the Tech Fades to the Background
Drugs, Drugs and More Drugs: Crypto on the Dark Web
Why Banks and Payment Processors Shun Perfectly Legal Businesses
PayPal’s Blockchain Chief on the Future of Crypto in Payments
The History of Cash-Like Digital Payment Instruments
GPUs Get Cheaper as Ethereum’s Switch to PoS Gets Closer
Morgan Stanley Says Wholesale Banks Can Thrive in a More Regulated Crypto Market
Why Do Exchange Balances Matter in Crypto?
Bitcoin Hits 6-Week Low as Risk-Off Sentiment Hits Financial Markets
Kraken Receives UAE License to Operate as a Regulated Crypto Exchange
EU Agrees on Law to Curb Online Ads, Strip Illegal Content
By David Z. Morris
Late on Monday, April 18, the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) edged out Binance’s BUSD to become the third-largest stablecoin by market cap. There are now nearly $18 billion UST in circulation. That’s well below the nearly $50 billion total for Circle’s USDC, or the $82 billion worth of Tether’s USDT roaming the Earth.
But UST is also much different from those competitors, in ways that could make it incredibly risky.
Stablecoins are tokens tracked by a blockchain, but in contrast to assets like bitcoin (BTC), they’re intended to consistently match the buying power of a fiat currency, most often the U.S. dollar. Stablecoins were first created to give active crypto traders a tool for moving quickly between more volatile positions, though as we’ll see, the potential for big interest rates on loans has also helped attract capital.
USDT and USDC are so-called “backed” or collateralized stablecoins. They keep their 1:1 dollar “peg” because they are (ostensibly) backed by bank accounts holding dollars, or by other dollar equivalent assets, for which tokens can be redeemed – although Tether has been notoriously reticent to specify the nature of its reserves.
UST, by contrast, began life as what’s known as an “algorithmic” stablecoin. These could also be referred to as “decentralized” stablecoins because decentralization is their primary reason for existing. A collateralized stablecoin like USDT or USDC is reliant on banks and traditional markets. That makes them in turn subject to regulation, enforcement and ultimately, censorship of transactions. Circle and Tether are run by centralized corporate entities with the ability to blacklist users and even seize their funds. Both systems have done this, sometimes at government behest.
In principle, algorithmic stablecoins like UST don’t have this censorship risk because they are not run by centralized corporate structures and do not hold backing in traditional institutions like banks. Of course, in reality “decentralization” is relative, and most such systems today still have key men, such as Do Kwon at Terraform Labs, or affiliated organizations that provide labor and funding. Whatever a system’s “decentralized” branding, regulators can still go after such public targets, a risk that’s worth keeping in mind.
Read The Full Story Here: ‘Built to Fail’? Why TerraUSD’s Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Nelson Wang."
17,321,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/26/decentralized-forex-is-coming-to-terra-vertex-protocol-raises-85m/,Decentralized Forex Is Coming to Terra: Vertex Protocol Raises $8.5M,The protocol seeks to expand DeFi liquidity to non-U.S. dollar pegged stablecoins.,2022-04-26,"Decentralized foreign exchange platform Vertex Protocol said Tuesday it raised $8.5 million in seed funding. The round was led by Hack VC, Dexterity Capital, Jane Street, Hudson River Trading and other firms, according to a press release.
The exchange offers decentralized finance (DeFi) services via Terra’s stablecoins. Conor McNamee, Vertex’s operations manager, said the protocol’s goal is to expand DeFi lending and other products beyond U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoins, which make up 99.5% of all stablecoins.
“A lot of people that are not from America, they want to probably use their local currency, right?” McNamee told CoinDesk in a phone interview. “Especially for firms or trading funds, or neobanks that are offering high interest savings accounts to users on top of DeFi, it's pretty risky not to hedge your [foreign exchange] exposure.”
While the most popular stablecoin in the ecosystem is terraUSD (UST), the chain also hosts stablecoins for Chinese yuan, euro, British pound and more.
Vertex allows users to trade, pool, borrow and lend these foreign cryptocurrencies. They can purchase perpetual swaps to hedge currency risk, making the market more accessible, said the press release.
Vertex is not the first DeFi FX platform. Synthetix, an Ethereum-based protocol that provides synthetic digital asset lending and trading, offers the euro-linked token synth sEUR (SEUR). However, McNamee said Terra’s low fees and transaction speed are more attractive for traders.
Vertex recently completed its Testnet phase with over 75,000 users. McNamee said his biggest insight from the phase was to make the user experience “less intimidating.”
A Testnet user named “Liquidity King” told CoinDesk via Telegram that they hope Vertex can “improve the [user interface], offering better charting options for the currency pairs as well as offering more pairs.”
“We want to bring sophisticated usability and tools to users so, like, trading charts, like limit orders, all this kind of stuff to users,” said McNamee. “We want anyone to be able to trade.”
According to McNamee, Vertex plans to use the funding to build out the team, scale the protocol, and develop a strong backend ahead of its launch in summer 2022. McNamee did not disclose a specific month.
CORRECTION (April 26, 2022, 13:15 UTC): Corrects Conor McNamee's title, adds additional context."
18,316,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/28/a-brief-overview-of-crypto-payments-in-5-charts/,A Brief Overview of Crypto Payments in 5 Charts,"Bitcoin launched as a purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash, inspiring the rise of other cryptocurrency payment options: Here is what the data shows. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Payments Week.",2022-04-28,"Bitcoin’s inception in 2009 was steeped in hopes of doing away with trusted third parties for online peer-to-peer transactions. In fact, that is the first sentence in the abstract of its white paper.
Given the evolution of Bitcoin over the last 13 years, most notably elevated transaction fees, various cryptocurrency projects and protocols have popped up as a means to send online payments, both on Bitcoin and on other blockchains. Be it the increased adoption of Bitcoin’s Lightning Network or the tremendous growth of the gaggle of stablecoins, both collateralized and algorithmic, there’s no denying that cryptocurrencies are hyper-focused on solving payments.
This article is part of CoinDesk’s Payments Week series.
What follows is a snapshot of various data figures that outline the state of crypto payments.
The Lightning Network is an overlay network or “second layer” built on top of the Bitcoin blockchain that uses user-generated micropayment channels to conduct transactions instantaneously. To generate those channels, users commit bitcoin (BTC) for a period of time. The sum of bitcoin committed to Lightning is known as its capacity. The larger the capacity, the more payment volume that can flow through the network.
Following muted growth between 2019 and mid-2021, Lightning’s capacity has increased rapidly in the last 12 months adding ~2,400 BTC, a growth rate of 195%. Of note, this data is representative only of the capacity in publicly announced channels – unannounced, and therefore private, channels do exist. As a result, this data is an understatement of the total Lightning Network capacity.
Read more: An In-Depth Look Into the Lightning Network by CoinDesk Research
Transactions over the Lightning Network are not announced publicly as they are on the regular Bitcoin blockchain; therefore, the actual usage rate of the Lightning Network is unknown. However, public data can be used to estimate payment volume and payment count.
According to data from Arcane Research, we’ve seen payment volume and payment count grow consistently since the beginning of 2020. This continued growth highlights how Bitcoin is gaining ground on its original stated use case as a viable peer-to-peer digital cash through the use of the Lightning Network. The dip in payment volume in November 2021 coincides with the price of bitcoin tumbling from over $66,000 to $46,000 in December. All the while, payment count on Lightning ticked up even as bitcoin’s price dipped.
Read more: The Lightning Network is Bringing Payments Back to Bitcoin
The seven coins included in this chart are defined by CoinDesk Indices' Digital Asset Classification Standard as part of the Currency Sector. Their primary function is to act as currency and make payments.
Looking at the transaction transfer value (the U.S. dollar amount of the asset value transferred) of these coins in combination with the total amount of transfers or transactions allows us to glean insight into each cryptocurrency’s usage.
A cryptocurrency blockchain could have many transactions, suggesting high levels of activity, but if the USD value of that activity is quite small it might suggest something else. This is the case with bitcoin SV (BSV). BSV has several million more transfers than other cryptocurrencies, yet the individual value of these transfers tends to be comparatively small. On average, BTC transfers $40,000 per transaction while BSV transfers $25.95 per transaction. After bitcoin, the next lowest value per transaction of the coins included in the data set is dash with $485 of value transferred per transaction.
Read more: What Is Going On With Bitcoin SV?
However, averages are skewed by large transactions, so looking at median transactions in USD can be quite useful in determining the actual usage of these cryptocurrencies for payments.
The 30-day trailing average for the median value transferred using bitcoin is $94 and $0.0005 for BSV. Both of these values skew to the high and low end value for casual commerce, so it might be the case that smaller casual crypto payments are being carried out using dogecoin (DOGE) or litecoin (LTC), which have median transaction values of $11 and $16, respectively.
Also worth a caveat is zcash and its relatively low median transaction value. Zcash is a privacy coin, but in order to use its privacy features, users must opt in. A regular zcash transaction is “unshielded” and is called a “t” transaction. A user can choose to “shield” their transactions in a “z” transaction, where all information is not publicized. As such, our data is only able to include unshielded transactions. Given roughly one third of zcash transactions are shielded, the resultant data is likely skewed.
Stablecoins are pegged to the price of a sovereign currency, usually the U.S. dollar. U.S.-pegged stablecoins play a vital role in payments, given their perceived lack of volatility and the dollar’s status as a globally accepted unit of account.
Tether (USDT), the first stablecoin, has long been the dominant stablecoin since inception, and there is now more than $80 billion of tether in circulation. Given its popularity, other stablecoins like USD coin (USDC) and terraUSD (UST) have popped up. In total, U.S.-pegged stablecoins now have more than $180 billion of market value.
While impressive, it is important to note that a sizable portion of stablecoins is used in crypto trading and decentralized finance (DeFi) versus peer-to-peer payments to buy things.
Read more: What Is a Stablecoin?
Improving payments represents one of the killer use cases for crypto assets, evidenced by the fact that there are so many different projects out there trying to do payments. In fact, money is one of humanity’s oldest technologies, and transacting with that money is a critical component of a successful money. Be it through cutting out third-party rent seekers or focusing on speed or perceived unit of account volatility risk, there is no shortage of options consumers have to make digital payments through crypto.
As with any network, it is important to understand the usage and pertinent metrics when determining the level of trust you want to put into these projects. Due to the transparency of blockchains, this type of insight can be gleaned with as little as an internet connection. That said, the main takeaway from the current data is that we have a long way to go.
Read more: Fast, Fluid, Frictionless Payments Are the Future
Blockchains offer unique advantages, but these must be combined with a user experience that feels similar to the one consumers know today, writes Senior Vice President Jose Fernandez da Ponte.
Financial censorship has gone from an abstract idea to a harsh reality for Russians who suddenly found themselves unbanked by the West and their own government.
Down The Silk Road: Where Crypto Has Always Been Used for Payments"
19,319,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/29/wall-streets-latest-market-manipulation-scandal-should-be-a-wake-up-call-for-crypto/,Wall Street’s Latest ‘Market Manipulation’ Scandal Should Be a Wake-Up Call for Crypto,Archegos levered a small basket of equities to the moon before it imploded - and took big stocks down with it. Similarly overlooked risks in crypto could leave traders holding the bag.,2022-04-29,"This week saw the dramatic arrest and criminal charging of Bill Hwang, the former manager of the private hedge fund Archegos Capital Management. You may remember that Archegos blew up last March. Banks that had lent it money for huge, leveraged trades wound up losing $10 billion dollars.
There’s a fascinating discussion to be had about whether what Hwang did was full-blown fraud, but I won’t bother trying to outdo Matt Levine on that front. Instead, I want to focus on the financial mechanics of what Archegos was up to, and why it’s extremely important for cryptocurrency holders or traders to understand.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The nut of it is simple: Archegos borrowed a lot of money and used it to buy very large amounts of roughly 10 different stocks. That buying itself helped push the stocks up, giving Archegos paper profits that it could use to borrow more money – which it then used to buy the same few stocks, pushing them up further. The leverage play produced incredible results for a time: Hwang reportedly launched Archegos with just $200 million in 2013, but by its peak, the fund’s paper value topped $30 billion, a 1,400% return in eight years.
But it was a tactic with a limited shelf life. Archegos over time accumulated utterly absurd positions in several major stocks. According to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Archegos came to own as much as 45% of the outstanding shares in Tencent and over 50% of ViacomCBS (now Paramount Global) shares. One of the pillars of the fraud case against Hwang is that he lied to banks about these levels when borrowing money. And the way things played out shows why banks don’t often or willingly lend into this sort of concentration.
ViacomCBS was the pin that popped the Archegos bubble. The stock ran from about $35 in January of 2021 to nearly $95 by March. I’m speculating, but it seems very plausible that Archegos’ own aggressive buying (read: alleged market manipulation) contributed to the insane runup that motivated the sale of new stock. Either way, nearly tripling your money is good!
Except when it’s not. The runup motivated ViacomCBS execs to issue new shares, which in turn deflated the stock, which dropped 30% in three days. With its high levels of concentration and leverage, that 30% drop in a single stock wound up being enough to earn Archegos the world’s worst margin call. With the paper value of its holdings dropping against its outstanding loan obligations, Archegos was forced to liquidate – ultimately nuking the entire fund.
See also: What Does Liquidation Mean and How to Avoid It?
But – and this is the really, really important part – there still wasn’t enough to pay back its lenders.
Archegos shows what might happen to any number of crypto assets that are leveraged or backed in certain ways. The key term here is exit liquidity, and one takeaway is the danger of backing or holdings concentrated in a few assets which can collapse suddenly in a liquidity crisis. In many cryptocurrency ecosystems, token holders are in much the same position as the banks that lent to Hwang: at risk of being trapped in a token as it burns down around them.
I wrote last week about the potential for an unwind of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which by the most generous interpretation is currently “backed” by a single asset, LUNA. The Luna team is working to diversify that backing to avoid the kind of concentrated risk that nuked Hwang, but their current goal would get them all the way up to three different assets by adding BTC and AVAX. Hwang wound up being too fragile while holding closer to 10 big positions.
Another suggestive parallel here is with the mechanics of crypto valuations in general, particularly when it comes to founder rewards, pre-mines or other large pools of tokens held in relatively static blocks. As many have pointed out, the “market cap” metric touted by many tokens is rendered pretty meaningless by these large allocations, which are essentially not on the market, and often never have been. The same might be argued for the lockups in certain lending and staking protocols.
See also: Lex Sokolin: The Fundamentals of Crypto's $2T Market Cap | Opinion
These big blocks of untraded tokens inflate the total market value of coins in a way quite similar to how Archegos inflated its portfolio. Though pre-mine and staking effects are subtler, both create a misleading perception of the scarcity of or demand for an asset. And both, though for different reasons, can lead to retail investors getting their faces ripped off: If you saw ViacomCBS spiking in March of last year and bought in, you wound up being Bill Hwang’s exit liquidity as he torched it from $97 down to $48 in just seven days. You could probably have a very therapeutic chat with a SafeMoon holder.
And let’s not forget the poor banks (heaven forbid!). Credit Suisse, for instance, shouldered the bulk of Archegos lender losses, eating $4.7 billion. That was in turn enough to knock nearly 18% off Credit Suisse’s stock price in a matter of days after Archegos fell. The bank was already troubled before this incident, and its stock has not recovered in the year since.
Bill Hwang may be a criminal, or he may have simply been playing the Wall Street game according to a set of unwritten but accepted rules – after all, in this day and age, cheating and lying are practically qualifications for working in high finance. Crypto has the distinct advantage of transparency – Hwang couldn’t have caused as much damage if he hadn’t concealed his levels of concentration and leverage. In most cases, similar behavior by a layer 1 or other protocol would be much more visible. The question is whether traders and investors are paying enough attention to what’s right there on the blockchain to avoid a replay of Archegos, in crypto form."
20,107,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/03/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-skew-shows-put-bias-intact-focus-on-rsi/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Skew Shows Put Bias Intact; Focus on RSI,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 3, 2022.",2022-05-03,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin's put-call skews continue to exhibit fear of a deeper price drop. Cardano sees renewed accumulation by whales. Terra-based lending and borrowing protocol Anchor moves to dynamic earn rate.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Sergey Vasylchuk, founder and CEO, Everstake
Molly White, editor, Wikipedia
Fear reigns supreme in the crypto market as Federal Reserve (Fed) is set to kick off a two-day meeting later Tuesday that is likely to end with the central bank announcing an outsized 50 basis point (half percentage point) rate hike and plans to shrink its nearly $9 trillion balance sheet.
Bitcoin's put-call skews, or implied volatility (vol) of calls minus puts, continue to hover above zero, indicating stronger demand for puts or bearish bets.
""Put skew retains a strong bid,"" Adam Farthing, chief risk officer for Japan at crypto trading firm B2C2, wrote in a market update published Monday. ""Risk reversals [r/r] are better bid again for puts (25delta r/r for BTC and ETH at 7.0 and 9.0 respectively), reflecting both the oversupply of call side vol, and the general macro concern that further USD strength will correlate with higher generalized volatility.""
Data tracked by the crypto derivatives research firm Skew show the one-week, one, and three-month put-call skews continue to March higher. The six-month gauge has come off from 6% to 3% in recent days, perhaps a sign of renewed optimism about cryptocurrency's long-term prospects.
""We're seeing consistent buying on late 2022/early 2023 options, which tells us that investors are feeling a little gloomy now, but hopeful for later in the year,"" Michael Safai, managing partner at crypto proprietary trading firm Dexterity Capital said in an email. ""Perhaps the expectation is, by then, the results of the Fed's rate experiment will be clear and macro sentiment will improve.""
Safai added that the upside momentum for bitcoin will need to come more from stock performance. The stock market's near-term prospects look bleak as expected tightening by the Fed is likely to cause demand destruction. The global manufacturing activity, measured by the Purchasing Manager's Index, has slipped into contraction, as The Daily Shot tweeted.
Per B2C2, crypto's dependence on equities looks elevated this week as the Fed, BoE, and RBA are scheduled to announce rate decisions. Further, the all-important U.S. nonfarm payrolls figure will be released this Friday. ""A big number could be interpreted as enabling Powell to hike more aggressively this year,"" B2C2's Farthing said.
Focus on 4H RSI
Traders looking for clues on whether bitcoin will bounce to $40,000 to drop to $37,000 should keep a close eye on bitcoin's 4-hour (4H) chart relative strength index (RSI). That's according to technical analysis by Nick Mancini, analyst at crypto sentiment analytics platform Trade the Chain.
""Since mid-April, 4h BTC's RSI has been hovering beneath the current trend. It is currently testing the trend, but has yet to make up its mind,"" Mancini said in a weekly newsletter shared with CoinDesk on Monday. ""If RSI is rejected again, along with the sentiment, we would expect the price to drop to $37,000 (white box). If RSI breaks above the trend, then we would likely see $40,000 tested.""
Cardano whales accumulate
Cardano (ADA) addresses holding one million to 10 million ADA have increased their balance by 196 million coins in five weeks, according to data tracked by blockchain analytics firm Sentiment.
The renewed accumulation by whales after a seven-month period might put a bid under the battered cryptocurrency.
ADA recently dipped to $0.735, the lowest since February 2021, according to CoinDesk data.
Anchor protocol shifts to dynamic earn rate
Terra-based lending and borrowing protocol Anchor is moving towards a flexible and dynamic deposit rate, abandoning the long-held policy of offering a fix rate of around 20%.
The rate will adjust dynamically by 1.5% each month depending on the changes in the protocol's yield reserves. The earn rate could increase if the reserve rises and vice versa.
""The addition of a semi-dynamic Earn rate will contribute to the long-term sustainability of Anchor & will benefit users of the protocol by enabling yield reserve growth while continuing to provide an attractive yield on UST,"" DeFi content platform Stakingbits noted.
CI Global, Galaxy Digital Expand ETF Suite With Blockchain and Metaverse Offerings
CoinShares's Preliminary Q1 Earnings Slump 45% YoY to $23.4M
SEC Extends Anti-Crypto Scam Efforts
Here’s Why Solana Ceased Block Production for Seven Hours on Saturday
Algorand Scores FIFA Partnership; ALGO Prices Surge
Crypto.com Restarts Staking Rewards After Community Furor
Andreessen Horowitz Commits $500 Million for Indian Startups: Report(
Crypto) Action! Indie Movie Studio Received $10M in Bitcoin for Shares Last October
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
21,51,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/04/revolution-promised-by-trons-justin-sun-looks-like-clone-of-terras-algorithmic-stablecoin/,'Revolution' Promised by Tron's Justin Sun Looks Like Clone of Terra's Algorithmic Stablecoin,"Tron, an Ethereum competitor blockchain, is the latest to launch an algorithmic stablecoin inspired by the success of Terra’s UST. It has lofty goals for USDD, but not much else.",2022-05-04,"Tron, the blockchain founded by entrepreneur Justin Sun in 2017 to compete with Ethereum, will release its algorithmic stablecoin called decentralized USD (USDD) on Thursday.
But reviews are already pouring in from crypto analysts who have glanced at early details of the project and say it mostly looks like a carbon copy of the Terra blockchain’s fast-growing stablecoin, UST.
“It is mechanistically similar to Terra's UST in terms of minting and price stability,” said Dustin Teander, an analyst at digital asset data platform Messari. Kevin Zhou, co-founder of the hedge fund Galois Capital, called it a “LUNA clone,” and Alex Krüger, a popular crypto analyst, echoed his views in a tweet.
Algorithmic stablecoins – cryptocurrencies with a price pegged to another asset, usually to the U.S. dollar by a pre-programmed or ""algorithmic"" incentive mechanism – are suddenly the talk of the town in crypto. The amount outstanding of Terra blockchain’s stablecoin, UST, has swelled to $18 billion from $2 billion. That's partly because of the current financial environment, where inflation is high, the Federal Reserve is raising interest rates and investors are hunting for high yields. Stablecoins like UST can in many cases be parked in blockchain-based protocols or deposited with crypto lenders for high yields.
Plenty of aspiring market entrants have taken notice of UST's fast growth; Tron's just the latest.
Tron says it also aims to raise $10 billion for TronDAO, a reserve that theoretically could help maintain the dollar peg in a potential market turmoil.
In an open letter on April 21, Sun, Tron's founder and ex-CEO, said that “TRON is starting a self-imposed revolution, pooling all its resources to create USDD, a fully decentralized stablecoin underpinned by mathematics and algorithms, bringing the development of stablecoin to the next level.”
According to USDD’s white paper, the peg will be sustained by creating and destroying USDD supply by a mint-and-burn mechanism and an arbitrage swap.
If the price of USDD falls below $1, users can buy 1 USDD in the external market and then swap 1 USDD for a guaranteed $1 worth of TRX. As a result of the arbitrage, 1 USDD will be burned, and $1 worth of TRX will be minted. Theoretically, as the supply of USDD decreases, USDD's price will increase, to the point where there is no room for arbitrage.
Similarly, if the price of USDD is above $1, users can swap $1 worth of TRX token for 1 USDD in the protocol. This way, 1 USDD will be minted and $1 worth of TRX will be burned, expanding the supply of USDD until its price will go down to the peg.
The white paper also unveils the TRON DAO Reserve, “the first decentralized reserve in the blockchain industry.”
Sun said in the open letter that the reserve “aims to safeguard the overall blockchain industry and crypto market, prevent panic trading caused by financial crises and mitigate severe and long-term economic downturns.”
The white paper says that “upon its establishment, the TRON DAO Reserve will set its basic risk-free interest rate to 30% per annum and facilitate other decentralized and centralized organizations that accept USDD to implement consistent interest rate policies.”
Does all this sound familiar?
The arbitrage swap of USDD and TRX mirrors Terra's way of maintaining UST stablecoin’s peg with the blockchain’s native token, LUNA.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
The Tron DAO resembles the Luna Foundation Guard’s reserve that supports the UST’s peg, standing at $2 billion with a goal of raising $10 billion.
And the “risk-free” – as the white paper puts it – 30% annual yield is a tool to generate demand for USDD, just as Anchor, a savings and lending protocol on the Terra blockchain, propped up demand for Terra’s stablecoin with a 20% annual yield on deposits in UST.
This week's launch of the Tron algorithmic stablecoin will mark the first of a four-stage road map for USDD, officials say. The full rollout should be complete by the end of this year.
Still, not much else is defined at this point.
“For example, it's not clear what asset the $10 billion reserves will be in or how or when they will be utilized in the system,” Teander said.
Tron didn't reply to questions after multiple requests for comment.
So, Tron needs to get users on board quickly to live up to USDD’s lofty goals. How did it fare in the last five years of its existence?
“Historically, Tron has lagged other ecosystems in building out consumer applications,” Teander said.
Data from decentralized finance (DeFi) data platform DefiLlama shows that most of the money locked on the Tron blockchain isn't being used. There’s $4.37 billion deposited – in crypto terms, total value locked – on the Tron blockchain, and the three largest protocols (JustLend, JustStables, SunSwap) make up almost all of the deposits.
JustLend, the biggest of the three, has $1.9 billion of deposits, but only $67 million borrowed, meaning that only 3.5% of the funds are actually used. JustStables, a DeFi system that already issues a dollar-pegged stablecoin (USDJ) on Tron, has $1.3 billion in deposits, but only $288 million in stablecoins were minted. And SunSwap, the third largest protocol, has very little activity outside of trading Tron’s native cryptocurrency, TRX.
Famously, Terra’s yield-earning platform Anchor offers up to a 20% annual yield on deposits, a subsidized rate not sustained by lending revenue and reliant on outside sources to maintain payouts.
Tron aims to outbid Terra by offering 30% annual yield on USDD deposits at the beginning.
“A 30% risk-free rate is a high rate to maintain,"" Teander said. ""Especially if there is no organic income to partially offset the cost.”"
22,320,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/04/terra-to-provide-ust-liquidity-on-polygon-based-synfutures/,Terra to Provide UST Liquidity on Polygon-Based SynFutures,SynFutures processed over $266 million in trades over the past week.,2022-05-04,"Algorithmic money market Terra will provide liquidity for TerraUSD (UST) trade pairs on decentralized finance (DeFi) exchange SynFutures, according to a release shared with CoinDesk.
SynFutures, which is accessible via Polygon, Binance Smart Chain and Arbitrum, processed over $266 million worth of trades over the past week, data shows. The protocol is backed by major crypto investors, such as Polychain Capital and Pantera, among others.
As of Wednesday, users can trade a variety of assets against USD Coin (USDC), FRAX and wrapped ether (WETH). The upcoming UST pairing would allow users of both ecosystems to gain access to newer markets and trading opportunities.
The announcement comes as the Terra ecosystem sees explosive growth with both UST and LUNA seeing increased activity. UST is the crypto market’s largest decentralized stablecoin by capitalization. It is backed by both Terra's native LUNA tokens and billions of dollars in bitcoin.
Meanwhile, Terra and SynFutures said they would explore other ways to work together ahead of the launch of SynFutures V2, an upcoming version that would see the launch of perpetual futures and other sophisticated trading products.
The price of LUNA is down a nominal 0.3% to about $84 in the past 24 hours."
23,323,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/05/market-wrap-cryptos-and-stocks-fall-luna-foundation-guard-accumulates-bitcoin/,"Market Wrap: Cryptos and Stocks Fall, Luna Foundation Guard Accumulates Bitcoin","BTC declined by as much as 10% on Thursday, its largest price drop in two months.",2022-05-05,"Sellers returned in full force on Thursday, sending both stocks and cryptos lower. The risk-off tone among market participants has been a dominant theme this year despite short-term price swings.
Bitcoin (BTC), the world's largest crypto by market cap, dropped by as much as 10%, reversing Wednesday's rise toward $40,000. The decline Thursday was the largest price drop in two months.
Meanwhile, alternative cryptos (altcoins) such as Solana's SOL token and Avalanche's AVAX token saw similar declines of about 10% over the past 24 hours. Popular meme coins such as Dogecoin's DOGE and Shiba Inu's SHIB declined by 5% and 7%, respectively.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Bitcoin's selling volume isn't as extreme relative to previous price downturns. That suggests further downside is likely before sellers capitulate. Technical indicators point to further downside toward the $30,000-$32,000 support zone as momentum weakens.
And in the futures market, a large amount of open interest was added to the market during Wednesday's rally. During Thursday's sell-off, almost all of that open interest was closed out, according to Glassnode, a crypto data provider.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $36,260, −8.86%
●Ether (ETH): $2,726, −7.60%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,148, −3.55%
●Gold: $1,880 per troy ounce, +0.69%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.07%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
The chart below shows the spike in long BTC liquidations over the past 24 hours, which reached the highest level since April 10.
Liquidations occur when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position as a safety mechanism due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. That happens primarily in futures trading, which only tracks asset prices, as opposed to spot trading, where traders own the actual assets.
Selling intensified later during the New York trading day, which pushed bitcoin below $36,000. That triggered an uptick in long liquidations. From a technical perspective, the sharp price drop rejected support at $37,500, which was the lower end of a three-month price range.
Over the past month, option traders were actively hedging against further price drops and purchasing front-month volatility contracts. That contributed to a bearish tone among market participants, which preceded the current sell-off.
On the flip side, it appears that selling pressure was met with renewed buying interest from the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG).
On Thursday, the foundation reported that it has acquired $1.5 billion in bitcoin to bolster the reserves of its Terra (LUNA) stablecoin. The purchase was conducted using over-the-counter swaps, which included one billion TerraUSD (UST) for $1 billion worth of BTC. Afterward, the foundation purchased an additional $500 million worth of BTC.
The newly acquired BTC brings the LFG’s total holdings to about 80,394 bitcoins, worth just shy of $3 billion. LFG aims to have accumulated a total of $10 billion in stablecoin reserves before the end of the third quarter.
""From the flows side, we are also watching progress on the Mt. Gox settlement to see when bitcoin payments totaling about $7 billion-$8 billion could potentially arrive in the market, which could be as early as the second half of 2022 or delayed until 2023,"" David Duong, head of institutional research at Coinbase, wrote in a report earlier this week.
""This could potentially be offset by purchases of bitcoin (or other tokens) to shore up stablecoin reserves, comparable to the LFG flows we saw in March and early April,"" Duong wrote.
Theoretically, persistent buying from LFG and others could absorb recent selling among traders.
Dogecoin, Shiba Inu underperform broader crypto market despite fundamental growth: The tokens of dogecoin and shiba inu fell by an average of 1.6% in the past 24 hours. The relative underperformance came even as both ecosystems saw fundamental growth in their underlying communities. DOGE was used to fund the purchase of a controlling stake in BIG3 league basketball team Aliens, and Shiba Inu developers started allowing community members to use SHIB for minting virtual land on Shiba Inu’s new metaverse. Read more here.
Solana Pay adds customized transaction requests for merchants: Solana Pay will facilitate transaction requests between merchants and users with a feature that went live on the platform this week, according to a post by Solana developers. Developers added the transaction request feature to allow merchants to provide customized transaction links to users, such as unique non-fungible tokens (NFTs) or virtual gifts. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: The CoinDesk ""Markets Daily"" podcast takes a deeper dive into Wednesday’s Fed policy announcement and discusses what a bunch of apes can tell us about the NFT market.
Bankoff’s Crypto Wallets Nearly Empty After Virtual Debit Card Provider Folds: The Delaware-registered company said Visa and Stripe cut it off for serving too many Russians, but on-chain data has stoked users' suspicions.
US House Panel to Weigh FTX Proposal on Clearing Customers’ Swaps Trades: As the CFTC is still considering an application from FTX.US, lawmakers will examine the potential trend at hearing.
Luna Foundation Guard Acquires $1.5B in Bitcoin to Reinforce Stablecoin Reserves: The purchase brings LFG's holdings to more than 80,000 bitcoins, or nearly $3 billion.
Bitcoin Plunges Most in Two Months Amid Stock Market Selloff: Bitcoin dropped more than 7% on Thursday. The price drop appeared synced with a broad selloff in stocks and bonds.
Elizabeth Warren Echoes Labor Dept. Concerns About Fidelity’s Plan for Bitcoin in 401(k) Retirement Plans: In a joint letter with Sen. Tina Smith, Warren asked Fidelity ""about the appropriateness"" of its plans.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
24,322,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/08/ust-briefly-loses-peg-luna-drops-10/,"UST Stablecoin Briefly Loses Peg, Luna Drops 10%",The Saturday event led to questions about whether Terra’s bitcoin reserves will soon face their first test,2022-05-08,"The closely watched TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin briefly lost its dollar peg on Saturday, May 7, falling to $0.987 before bouncing back on Sunday. Its sister token, LUNA, fell 10%.
As the largest algorithmic stablecoin, UST has emerged as a major – albeit controversial – backbone of the crypto economy.
UST's loss of its $1 peg this weekend wasn't the first or the largest ""depegging"" event in Terra’s history, but it marks the first time the algorithmic stablecoin has fallen below $1 since it embarked on its much-publicized bid to build out its bitcoin and avalanche reserves.
Losing the peg didn't cause Terra to tap into its bitcoin reserves on Saturday, as the deployment of hundreds of millions of dollars of rescue capital appeared enough to buoy the token back to around $1.
The depegging appeared to kick off with a series of major withdrawals from Anchor Protocol, a lending market that offers high yields to users who deposit UST. Over the weekend, Anchor’s total UST deposits fell from $14 billion to $11.2 billion (UST’s total circulating supply is $18 billion).
Large quantities of UST were also withdrawn from liquidity pools on Curve, a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform that allows users to swap between stable currencies like UST. A $150 million liquidity withdrawal came from Terra creators, Terraform Labs, which claimed Sunday that it made the withdrawal as it was preparing to shuffle around funds between pools, but it redeposited $100 million after realizing UST had begun to trade a discount relative to other stablecoins.
Adding a tinge of conspiracy to Saturday’s events, a single wallet also raised eyebrows for dumping $84 million worth of UST on the Ethereum blockchain and $108 million on the Binance crypto exchange. That led to calls from within the Terra community that the depeg was a “coordinated attack.”
Do Kwon, the outspoken founder of Terraform Labs, chimed in on Saturday with a series of jokes and jabs at “anons” circulating “fud” (fear, uncertainty and doubt).
At one point, Kwon tweeted out a chart with the claim that one wallet was responsible for 62% of Anchor withdrawals. He quickly deleted the tweet, presumably after realizing that the “62%” figure on his chart referred to all “other” wallets rather than one specific wallet.
After Kwon started tweeting on Saturday, a single wallet appeared to be intent on rescuing UST’s peg. In the span of around 10 minutes, the wallet swapped over $200 million of UST for tether in order to rebalance UST’s Curve pools thereby boosting its price. More swaps continued on Sunday morning as UST’s peg recovered.
Some have speculated that the savior wallet belongs to Jump Crypto, a financial firm with strong ties to Terra and Terraform Labs. Jump is the same firm that stepped in to backstop a $320 million exploit of Solana’s Wormhole bridge back in February.
UST relies on another token, LUNA, to keep its price of a dollar via a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanisms.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Recently, Kwon has made headlines for using LUNA to buy bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as a way to partially back UST. That has been framed as a way to secure UST’s peg while maintaining decentralization, but the central role of Kwon and Terraform Labs in buying bitcoin has fueled claims that Terra is centralized.
Thus far there is no concrete link between UST and its BTC/AVAX reserves, which led to questions on Saturday around if or how the currencies could have been deployed to defend UST's peg. During this most recent event, the reserves have so far gone untouched.
UST and LUNA are currently the 9th and 10th largest cryptocurrencies by market cap according to CoinMarketCap.
Luna’s price has fallen 10% in the past 24 hours and is now worth $66 according to CoinGecko. UST has mostly recovered its peg and is now trading at $0.998."
25,324,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/09/bitcoin-tumbles-to-lowest-since-july-2021-as-market-panic-grows/,Bitcoin Tumbles to Lowest Price Since July 2021 as Market Panic Grows,Cryptos slumped across the board all weekend and added to declines Monday morning as global equity markets swooned.,2022-05-09,"The reality of tighter monetary policy continues to be felt in all markets, including crypto, with the price of bitcoin (BTC) – which days ago topped $40,000 – falling to as low as $32,500.
Bitcoin lost the critical support level of $40,000 last week and did not hold above subsequent support levels at $38,000 and $35,800. It could drop to as low as $31,500 if current levels fail to hold.
Crypto majors followed bitcoin’s drop: Ether (ETH) lost 8.7% in the past 24 hours, while Cardano’s ADA (ADA) and Solana’s SOL (SOL) dipped as much as 10%. Memecoin shiba inu (SHIB) took an even bigger hit with a 13% fall.
Liquidations on crypto-tracked futures exceed $411 million in the past 24 hours, data shows. Of that, some $140 million arose from bitcoin futures, and $121 million came from ether futures.
Bitcoin’s initial weekend declines came alongside TerraUSD (UST) losing its peg to the dollar. The fall added steam on Sunday evening as Asian equity markets and U.S. stock index futures opened sharply lower, with fears continuing to grow about the monetary response to surging inflation. Japan’s Nikkei ended the day 2.5% lower, Europe's Stoxx 600 is down 2% at midday, and Nasdaq futures are down 1.5%.
The U.S. dollar, meanwhile, continues to benefit from panicky markets, with the Australian dollar and Indian rupee notable losers today.
Analysts previously warned about a drop in bitcoin prices if the broader economic outlook continued to sour. “Professional money managers aren't loading up on high-risk growth assets currently,” said Kurt Grumelart, a trader at crypto fund Zerocap, in a Telegram message last week. “You can't look past current headwinds and high correlation to traditional markets,” he added at the time, warning about bitcoin’s current price correlation with U.S. markets."
26,104,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/09/new-fed-report-repeats-warning-about-stablecoin-run-risks-as-ust-loses-peg/,New Fed Report Repeats Warning About Stablecoin Run Risks as UST Loses Peg,The Federal Reserve's biannual report came out on the same day Terra's dollar-pegged UST stablecoin fell below $0.85.,2022-05-09,"The U.S. government is continuing to cast stablecoins as a potential threat to the stability of the financial system, with both the Federal Reserve and a senior Treasury official saying Monday the tokens could experience dangerous customer runs.
As government officials expressed their doubts about the sector, terraUSD (UST), which burns and mints its sister token LUNA to absorb shocks to its price, lost its peg to the dollar on Monday for a second time in three days. UST, one of the top stablecoins in circulation, dropped well below $0.85 at one point late Monday.
The Fed's latest ""Financial Stability Report"" issued a potentially well-timed warning that the risk of sudden, desperate redemptions of stablecoins – crypto tokens pegged to the value of another asset like the dollar – is akin to the risk of runs in money-market funds.
The report, which included a similar warning in the most recent version in November, is a biannual publication the Fed produces to assess ongoing risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system.
“These vulnerabilities may be exacerbated by a lack of transparency regarding the riskiness and liquidity of assets backing stablecoins,” according to the report, which noted that the market is concentrated with more than 80% of its activity in three names: tether (USDT), USDC and binance USD (BUSD).
The documents also flagged a worry not detailed previously that “the increasing use of stablecoins to meet margin requirements for levered trading in other cryptocurrencies may amplify volatility.”
On the same day, Nellie Liang, the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for Domestic Finance, spoke about stablecoins at an event hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
“They have the potential to generate destabilizing runs if the value of the assets backing the stablecoin decline abruptly,” said Liang, who has been leading the Treasury’s work to determine how the federal government should oversee digital assets. She also said that stablecoins may “introduce novel risk – payment system risk – related to the distributed ledger technology.”
U.S. regulators, including Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler, have sometimes compared stablecoins to money-market funds. Investors in money markets are similarly supposed to be able to count on getting a dollar back for each dollar invested, though the short-term investment funds are also meant to provide an additional small return.
In the 2008 financial collapse, the Reserve Primary Fund became one of the first retail money market funds to ""break the buck"" by slipping below $1 to $0.97 a share. The entire industry convulsed in response and the government stepped in to back the funds.
UPDATE (May 9, 22:31 UTC): Updated UTC price information in second paragraph."
27,318,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/09/defi-locked-value-falls-to-yearly-low-27b-lost-over-the-weekend/,"DeFi Locked Value Falls to Yearly Low, $27B Lost Over the Weekend","The drop is likely due to falling token prices and risk-off sentiment in the broader market, analysts said.",2022-05-09,"Value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol set 2022 lows this weekend amid a broader sell-off in global markets and waning interest in risky assets, such as cryptocurrencies.
Data from tracking service DeFi Llama shows DeFi protocols hold a collective $177.6 billion as on Monday, a 29% slump from December highs of $252 billion. Some $27 billion in locked value was lost over this weekend alone, the data shows.
Stablecoin swap platform Curve, the largest DeFi protocol by total value locked (TVL), saw a nearly 10% drop in the past week. Staking service Lido saw a 13% drop, while Terra’s Anchor took a 21% cut as the TerraUSD (UST) token temporarily lost its peg to the U.S. dollar over the weekend.
Some protocols have taken big hits in the past month. DeFi aggregator Instadapp saw a 43% drop in TVL, lending protocol Aave lost 22%, while cross-chain liquidity tool Stargate lost as much as 60% of its TVL.
A part of the drop can be attributed to the falling prices of the underlying tokens stored, some analysts explained.
“The decline in DeFi TVL we’re currently seeing is caused mainly by the overall market downtrend – on the one hand, a lot of assets locked in DeFi protocols are highly volatile and their value decreased with the market dip,” said Kate Kurbanova, co-founder of risk management platform Apostro, in a Telegram message.
“On the other hand, we should count on the fear which usually comes with the downtrend and people exiting their positions (volatile) into stablecoins or fiat – which also drives value away,” Kurbanova added.
The fall in TVL comes as April saw falling revenues on DeFi platforms compared to March. These revenues are earned each time a user trades, lends or conducts other activity with the protocol taking a small cut of volumes as fees.
Financial services platform SushiSwap saw a 29% drop in revenues, while those on DeFi exchange Balancer fell as much as 66%, as reported. Curve (CRV) and Uniswap (UNI) were the only DeFi projects to post revenue gains. Curve earned 51% more in April than it did in March, while Uniswap made 13% more.
Tokens of the broader DeFi sector lost 34% on average – becoming the worse-performing crypto sector. The memecoin sector, in comparison, lost just 16%, proving to be a better bet for investors who chose to punt on memes instead of sophisticated technologies."
28,329,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/09/first-mover-asia-did-nvidia-profit-from-crypto-mining-consider-its-manufacturing-partners-stocks-cryptos-have-a-rough-day/,First Mover Asia: Did Nvidia Profit From Crypto Mining? Consider Its Manufacturing Partners’ Stocks; Cryptos Have a Rough Day,The manufacturer of graphics processing units has been reluctant to acknowledge the role its products play in crypto mining; bitcoin and ether plummet.,2022-05-09,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos plummet.
Insights: Nvidia has a peevish relationship with the crypto industry.
Technician's take: BTC's breakdown is confirmed and upside appears limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,199 -8.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,305 -8.8%
Another difficult day for cryptos
And the beatdown goes on.
Bitcoin continued to spiral in Monday trading, dropping to levels it hasn't seen since early July and is at less than half its price in late November when it approached $70,000.
The euphoria of wider adoption and growing institutional interest coupled with growing awareness of blockchain-fueled projects has long since evaporated, replaced by fear of higher interest rates, geopolitical turmoil and a looming recession. The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently trading at just over $31,000 after dropping well below that threshold earlier in the day. But bitcoin's more than 8.5% plunge over the past 24 hours was better than most major cryptocurrencies fared on Monday as investors fled assets with even an inkling of risk. The riskier the asset the faster the exit.
Terra's LUNA token was off more than 30% over the same period after the Luna Foundation Guard, the Singapore-based, non-profit established to support the Terra network, tweeted that would loan $1.5 billion in bitcoin (BTC) and terraUSD (UST) to defend the peg of its algorithmic stablecoin to the U.S. dollar. CRO tumbled more than 16% at one point. ADA and DOT were off about 14%.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was more resilient, roughly mirroring BTC's more modest drop. Trading volume increased slightly, reflecting the pickup in sellers' activity, although it remained well off 2022 highs earlier in the year. The Fear & Greed index remained in the extreme fear range where it has spent the past month amid investors' growing concerns about inflation, central bank monetary hawkishness that could send the global economy into recession and the widening aftershocks of Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. Daily, weekly and monthly charts for bitcoin have all trended negative.
Crypto's bloodbath tracked steep declines in equity markets with the tech-focused Nasdaq dropping over 4.3% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 3.2% and nearly 2%, respectively. Even gold, a safe-haven asset that typically rises in stressful periods, declined 1.5%.
Mark Lurie, the CEO of crypto trading software provider Shipyard Software, noted the impact of Terra's announcement, but called it ""noise relative to the macro story"" that has sucked in ""growth assets,"" including Amazon (AMZN), Alphabet's (GOOG) Google and some of the biggest names in technology.
""This macro drop is probably for two converging reasons,""
Lurie wrote that the macro drop was due to rising interest rates that were making ""safer assets more attractive"" and pulling ""capital from growth stocks."" But he also highlighted the easing of pandemic restrictions that has reduced consumers' reliance on technology. ""Many people are returning to offline buying behaviors, hurting e-commerce and tech stocks that did the best during lockdowns,"" he wrote.
S&P 500: 3,991 -3.2%
DJIA: 32,245 -1.9%
Nasdaq: 11,623 -4.2%
Gold: $1,852 -1.5%
Here's why Nvidia downplayed its mining business
Nvidia (NVDA) has always had a testy relationship with crypto and its decision to re-write history cost the company $5.5 million.
In the late 2000s, its Graphics Processing Units (GPU), built primarily with gaming in mind, found a second life: Their ability to do parallel processing, used to create photo-realistic graphics for games, meant they could crunch through large amounts of data with ease, launching a new world of computing.
General Purpose GPU Compute, or GPGPU compute, is responsible for the AI and Big Data boom. These GPUs were a requirement for virtually every data center, and Nvidia’s stock rose like a rocket with this demand.
GPGPU also meant that GPUs were essential for mining crypto. First bitcoin and then ether.
As we all know, the demand caused a massive shortage of graphics cards throughout the first crypto boom of 2016-2018. Gamers and PC enthusiasts were annoyed because the latest gen cards were impossible to find, meaning that they had to game with yesterday’s tech.
And Nvidia did all it could to write this out of history. While Nvidia makes a specialized mining card, it strongly discourages mining with its regular gaming cards and tries to disable the ability to mine with them. This leads to a back and forth between the company and miners that try and break this lock.
Nvidia’s annoyance with mining also resulted in its downplaying the impact it had on its business in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings and attributing it to gaming.
This was a strange decision on Nvidia’s part because crypto’s fluctuations were easy to see on the stock prices of its graphics card manufacturing partners in Asia. Shipments of new high-end motherboards, a key component for PCs, didn’t seem to be in sync with the insatiable demand the market had for GPUs, suggesting it wasn’t high-end gaming PCs the market wanted but only one component.
While Nvidia designs the GPU at the core of a graphics card, companies in Taiwan manufacture the board these cards are attached to called a “graphics card” (sometimes called an add-in board by analysts).
Gigabyte, Micro-Star International (MSI), and Zotac (its parent is listed in Hong Kong as PC Partner Group) are some of the biggest names in the business. Usually, these are relatively boring stocks because they are manufacturing companies that are at the behest of chip designers like Nvidia.
It is Nvidia, not Gigabyte, that makes the proprietary and valuable part of a graphics card, and the relatively low income and profit margins for Gigabyte reflect this.
The fortunes of these companies changed during the crypto boom of 2017-2018. Miners then needed every graphics card they could get their hands on to profit from the then-nascent Ethereum protocol and its role in the initial coin offering (ICO) bubble.
Investors hungry for exposure to the market bought all the stock they could of Gigabyte, MSI (2377) and PC Partner (1263). The number of investment vehicles for crypto then were limited as registered crypto custodians didn’t exist at the time. In November 2017, Bloomberg specifically called out these stocks as opportunities for investors seeking a macro proxy for crypto.
Eventually, the ICO bubble burst and a crypto crash happened. Students of bitcoin’s history know that the crypto winter of 2018 was a particularly chilly one as prices dropped significantly and didn’t recover for a long time.
Gigabyte, MSI and PC Partner’s stocks deflated as fast as they rose. Demand from mining companies evaporated overnight, and analysts warned that these companies would be in a tough position with layoffs and restructuring. Nvidia called this a “crypto hangover” as it took a $23 billion write-down on excess inventory that it just couldn’t move. Nvidia-competitor AMD (AMD) had the same problem.
Although crypto’s material impact on Nvidia’s bottom line was patently clear to informed observers (it's not clear why the SEC is dealing with this only now), the company still tried to hide it. Its decision is likely because its data center and enterprise businesses proved to be stalwart pillars of revenue, and the company didn’t want investors to be spooked.
The question is, as we head into another crypto winter, will history repeat itself?
Bitcoin Under Pressure; Support at $27K-$30K
Bitcoin (BTC) confirmed a break below its short-term uptrend and is now targeting lower support at $27,000 and $30,000. Sellers could remain active given the loss of upside momentum on the daily, weekly and monthly charts.
BTC was down by as much as 11% over the past 24 hours and 20% over the past week.
Further, bitcoin is roughly 50% below its all-time high near $69,000, achieved in November of last year, compared to an 80% peak-to-trough decline during the 2018 crypto bear market. At this point, price action does not indicate a major cycle low.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is the most oversold since Jan. 24, which preceded a relief rally. This time, however, BTC is at risk of breaking below its year-long price range, which means buyers could continue to take profits on short-term recoveries.
Bitcoin miner CleanSpark first-quarter earnings
Coinbase first-quarter earnings
3 p.m. HKT/SGT(7 a.m. UTC): China new loans (April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin, Broader Crypto Slide Continues, Where’s the Bottom? LFG Lends $1.5B in BTC to Defend UST
What's going on in the crypto markets? ""First Mover"" dove into markets analysis with industry executives in key markets to discuss the reasons for the dramatic slide, how long it may continue and what to make of the latest news involving the stablecoin UST, which briefly lost its peg to the U.S. dollar over the weekend. Guests included Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten, Valkyrie Chief Investment Officer and co-founder Steven McClurg and Coinchange CEO Maxim Galash.
Bitcoin Funds Had Surprise Inflows as Markets Plunged: Some $45 million flowed into these funds in the week through May 6. Investors apparently bought the market dip.
Bitcoin Tumbles to Lowest Price Since July 2021 as Market Panic Grows: Cryptos slumped across the board all weekend and added to declines Monday morning as global equity markets swooned.
Coinbase Faces Q1 Earnings Challenge as Crypto Markets Weaken: Coinbase’s first-quarter results could see some soft spots as crypto prices continue to retreat.
Mark Zuckerberg Says Instagram Will Test NFTs Starting This Week: Meta (FB) is also working on 3D augmented reality NFTs that will be compatible with Instagram stories.
Luna Foundation Guard Lends $1.5B in BTC and UST for Stablecoin Peg: The move comes after UST briefly lost its peg to the U.S dollar over the weekend.
Why on Earth Would Land Be Scarce in the Metaverse?: With their “skeuomorphic” approach to real estate, Web 3 metaverse projects may have fallen into a trap of their own making.
Today's crypto explainer: Can Crypto Go Green? How to Invest in Eco-Friendly Cryptocurrencies
Other voices: Making money on crypto? Yes, the IRS expects a cut (CNN)
""The project never launched, partly because Facebook burned its reputation to the ground selling our data and potentially destabilizing democracy. So regulators worldwide acted on our behalf to say that Facebook – with its billions of users and foothold within the internet – couldn’t be trusted with a radical new attempt for currency design. [Nouriel] Roubini’s project is similarly ambitious – creating an alternative safe haven asset to U.S. Treasurys that also has “payment features.” It might also offer yield, making it more attractive to hold, although in a blog post, Roubini notes that USG’s fluctuating value may limit its use as a form of payment."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... ""Stocks will enter a bear market, at least by most conventional definitions, when the S&P 500 has dropped 20% from its last peak. As of Friday afternoon, the index had dropped nearly 14 percent from a Jan. 3 record. A 2.7% drop in late-morning trading on Monday meant the index was even closer to the bear market threshold now."" (The New York Times) ... ""Still, investors are parsing disparate data about the financial health of consumers and businesses. The U.S. economy shrank by 1.4% in the first quarter, the worst showing since early in the pandemic, in spring 2020. However, consumer and business spending remained strong. Bank executives have pointed to high spending in categories like travel and entertainment as reasons for optimism. Market volatility resulting from higher interest rates and the war in Ukraine have dinged big banks’ deal-making businesses. The market for initial public offerings has been largely shut down over the past several months."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
29,111,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/09/first-mover-americas-institutions-look-to-be-selling-btc-in-falling-market/,First Mover Americas: Institutions Look to Be Selling BTC in Falling Market,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 9, 2022.",2022-05-09,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Macro headwinds continue to push bitcoin lower. A popular indicator suggests institutions are selling into a falling market. Two charts offer hope to battered bitcoin bulls.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Steven McClurg, chief investment officer and co-founder, Valkyrie
Cory Klippsten, CEO, Swan Bitcoin
Maxim Galash, CEO, Coinchange
It’s a new week but the same old story in financial markets. The U.S. dollar is again trading higher as macro headwinds weigh over stocks, bonds and cryptocurrencies.
Bitcoin (BTC), the top cryptocurrency by market value, traded at a 3 1/2-month low of $33,080 at press time, representing a 3% drop on the day, according to CoinDesk data.
""Investors are clearly concerned about the aggressive monetary policy from the Federal Reserve, as they will also begin Quantitative Tightening (removal of liquidity from the market) in June,"" Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at the U.K.-based digital asset broker GlobalBlock, said in an email.
Institutional selling
A popular indicator suggests institutions are selling into a falling market.
The ""Coinbase premium index,"" an indicator showing the spread between Coinbase's BTC/U.S. dollar (USD) pair and Binance's BTC/USDT pair involving the tether stablecoin, recently turned negative and fell to a 12-month low, according to data tracked by South Korea-based Cryptoquant.
""This [negative Coinbase premium] is telling as a greater percentage of institutions use Coinbase compared to retail, whereas the opposite is the case for Binance. Therefore, the price mismatch mentioned suggests institutions are not currently as interested as retail,"" Sotiriou said. ""This will be good to keep an eye on going forward and if/when this reverses it could coincide with some relief in the market or a reversal.""
CryptoQuant said in a quicktake blog, ""Usually, there is a Coinbase premium. This means that the bitcoin price on Coinbase is higher than on Binance. This was/is very important, because American institutions and HNW (High Net Worth) were trading mostly on Coinbase. However... in the latest few days it's negative. This indicates heavy selling on Coinbase Pro!""
Terra jitters
Programmable blockchain Terra's UST, the world's biggest decentralized stablecoin, lost its 1:1 dollar peg over the weekend after multi-million dollar UST sales on Curve and Binance and a series of significant withdrawals from Anchor Protocol, a lending market offering high yields to UST depositors.
The depegging perhaps added to the downward pressure on bitcoin and the wider crypto market. ""People become afraid that the Luna Foundation Guard [LFG] would have to sell its BTC to support the UST peg, so BTC sells off,"" Ilan Solot, a partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email.
""Remember that Terra foundation is the second-largest corporate holder of BTC, between MicroStrategy and Tesla,"" Solot added.
The stablecoin was 0.5% off its peg at the time of writing. Terra's founder Do Kwon tweeted early Monday that the LFG agreed to deploy $1.5 billion in capital to defend the peg while assuring the market that the foundation was not trying to abandon its bitcoin position.
Some 'hopium'
Amid the gloom and doom, two charts could offer some ""hopium"" – a crypto slang for hope – to the battered bitcoin bulls.
The first is bitcoin's implied volatility (IV) – options traders' expectations for price turbulence over a specific period. The one-week implied volatility has risen above the six-week gauge, a sign of peak fear.
A similar IV structure has marked temporary/interim price bottoms in the past.
Secondly, the dollar index's (DXY) technical chart shows the 50-week moving average is on track to move above the 200-week MA, confirming the so-called bullish crossover (Editor's note: The newsletter mistakenly said ""monthly"" moving averages).
While the golden cross is a bullish indicator, as per technical analysis theory, it is a lagging indicator in reality and often traps traders on the wrong side of the market. In other words, the DXY could be closing on an interim top. The dollar weakness is considered positive for risk assets, including cryptocurrencies.
Staking Tool Lido DAO's LDO Token Climbs Ahead of Binance Listing
Bitstamp Appoints JB Graftieaux as CEO After Julian Sawyer's Departure
How Big Is Crypto Crime, Really?
Luna Foundation Guard Lens $1.5B in BTC and UST for Stablecoin Peg
First Mover Asia: The BitMEX Saga Continues to Leave Fundamental Regulatory Issues Unsettled; Bitcoin Continues to Fall
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
30,317,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/09/luna-foundation-guard-lens-15b-in-btc-and-ust-for-stablecoin-peg/,Luna Foundation Guard Lends $1.5B in BTC and UST for Stablecoin Peg,The move comes after UST briefly lost its peg to the U.S dollar over the weekend.,2022-05-09,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) will lend $1.5 billion in bitcoin (BTC) and terraUSD (UST) to defend the peg of its algorithmic stablecoin to the U.S. dollar.
In a tweet thread, the Singapore-based LFG said it would loan $750 million worth of BTC to trading firms to help protect the peg and also loan $750 million in UST to accumulate bitcoin to help normalize the market.
""The traders will trade the capital on both sides of the market to help accomplish both #1 and #2, eventually maintaining parity of the LFG Reserve pool (denominated in BTC) as market conditions progressively stabilize,"" LFG wrote in the thread.
UST relies on another token, LUNA, to keep its price of a dollar via a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanisms and is one of the largest algorithmic stablecoin.
In a separate tweet thread, Do Kwon, the project's founder, said the move to loan out $750 million of bitcoin shouldn't be seen as LFG trying to exit its BTC position but, rather, increasing the liquidity around the UST peg. LFG will buy more BTC if UST expands from here, which we think is the more likely outcome,"" Kwon said.
Over the weekend, the UST briefly lost its peg to the U.S. dollar, falling to $0.987 before climbing back to $1. At the same time, LUNA dropped 10%.
Part of the reason why UST briefly broke its peg was the large quantities of UST that were withdrawn from liquidity pools on decentralized exchange Curve, while $192 million of UST was dumped."
31,325,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/09/ust-stablecoin-falls-below-dollar-peg-for-second-time-in-48-hours/,"UST Stablecoin Loses Dollar Peg for Second Time in 48 Hours, LUNA Market Cap Falls Below UST's",The development comes after the Luna Foundation Guard announced that its massive bitcoin reserves will be used to defend UST’s dollar peg.,2022-05-09,"TerraUSD (UST) has lost its dollar peg for the second time in three days, falling to as low as $0.65 on Monday, according to the most recent price estimates from CoinMarketCap.
As UST has ""depegged,"" the price of LUNA, its sister token, has dropped over 44% to $35 in the past 24 hours according to CoinMarketCap.
UST, a so-called algorithmic stablecoin, works with LUNA to maintain a price of $1 using a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanics. In theory, these mechanics work to ensure traders can always swap $1 worth of UST for $1 worth of Luna, which has a floating price and is meant to serve as a kind of shock absorber for UST's price.
Luna's price decline puts its market cap below that of UST's. That potentially throws the foundation of UST's entire stabilizing mechanism into jeopardy, because it means a Terra bank run could lead to some users no longer being able to redeem their $1 of UST for $1 of LUNA.
Read More: What is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
UST’s earlier loss of its $1 peg this weekend, which saw the token dip to $0.985 on Saturday before recovering to the $1 mark on Sunday, wasn't the first or the largest “depeg” event in Terra’s history, but it marked the first time the algorithmic stablecoin slipped below $1 since it embarked on a much-publicized bid to build out bitcoin and avalanche reserves.
Today’s depeg comes after the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) announced Sunday night that $1.5 billion of its massive bitcoin reserves would be “loaned” out to professional market makers to proactively defend UST’s dollar peg.
Monday's events were ""the biggest stress test the system has ever faced,"" José Maria Macedo – a partner at Delphi Digital and an LFG council member who helps manage the group's reserves – told CoinDesk. But he added that the UST-LUNA market cap flip is not a cause for concern because of LFG's reserves.
Shortly after Macedo's call with CoinDesk, Terra appeared to empty out all of the funds (around $1.3 billion) from its confirmed bitcoin address.
A few minutes later, Do Kwon, the outspoken CEO of Terra's creators, Terraform Labs, tweeted, ""Deploying more capital - steady lads.""
Professional market makers are apparently using the BTC reserves to defend UST's dollar peg on protocols like Curve, which allows people to swap between UST and other currencies like the dollar-backed USDC and Tether stablecoins.
Currently, there is no concrete link between the LFG reserves and Terra's on-chain mint and burn mechanism. There are proposals to bake Terra's bitcoin reserves into its underlying smart contracts, but there's currently no way for users to directly redeem UST or LUNA for bitcoin.
Whether this will ever be possible has become even more unclear now that the reserves look to have been drained almost entirely.
On CoinDesk TV on Monday morning, Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten called Terra a “confidence game” in response to the outsized influence of Terra’s founders and big-money backers in actively working to help the currency maintain its peg.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.
UPDATE (May 9, 18:46 UTC): Updated with additional context and information.
UPDATE (May 9, 22:07 UTC): Updated UTC price information in first paragraph.
UPDATE (May 10, 00:52 UTC): Updated UTC price information in first paragraph."
32,331,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/10/ust-resumes-spiral-after-quiet-day-orbiting-90-cents/,UST Resumes Spiral After Quiet Day Orbiting 90 Cents,Terra’s shaky stablecoin is prompting calls for closer regulation by key U.S. officials.,2022-05-10,"TerraUSD (UST) resumed its downward spiral Tuesday afternoon New York time, sinking below 80 cents as it breached a relatively quiet 12-hour period when its price remained stable around 10% off its dollar peg.
Terra’s shaky stablecoin has struggled to maintain its $1 target since this weekend’s dips began; it reached as low as 68 cents Monday in a swan dive that prompted billion-dollar rescue efforts from reserve overseer, the Luna Foundation Guard.
Crypto market participants, regulators and critics are keenly watching UST’s flailing to measure up to the concept of algorithmic stablecoins, which rely on programs (over full collateral) to stay at $1 a coin.
“I think that simply illustrates that this is a rapidly growing product, and that there are risks to financial stability and we need a framework that's appropriate,"" Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said of UST at a U.S. Senate hearing Tuesday.
Sinking to 78 cents and lower late Tuesday, UST ruptured the day’s staid trading session amid reports by The Block that LFG was searching for a $1 billion bailout. Firms reportedly involved in the talks did not immediately respond to CoinDesk.
LUNA, the token meant to act as a backstop to UST's price, lost 63% of its value over the past 24 hours, plunging from $44.18 to less than $16 at press time. The token traded hands above $86 less than a week ago.
UPDATE (May 10, 2022, 22:28 UTC): Adds context on LUNA's price."
33,69,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/11/do-kwon-is-the-elizabeth-holmes-of-crypto/,Do Kwon Is the Elizabeth Holmes of Crypto,"If you promise investors something impossible, is it a crime?",2022-05-11,"LUNA, the token that was meant to algorithmically balance the TerraUSD “stablecoin,” is trading as I write this at about $1.92 – down 94% since yesterday. It has dipped to as low as 70 cents. TerraUSD (UST) was recently trading at about 67 cents.
This means the Terra/Luna “experiment” is almost certainly over. The chances that the system will restabilize, and TerraUSD will regain its peg naturally are near zero, because the entire structure was based on external subsidies and those funders may have finally wised up. Do Kwon likely won’t get another bailout.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
It is impossible not to contemplate what is going through Kwon’s head as he surveys the wreckage of what just days ago had the outlines of a nascent empire. There have been few falls as sudden and humbling in business history, or even in public life more generally.
But one downfall that came close was Elizabeth Holmes’.
Once a cover subject for glossy business magazines that hailed her to the sky as a revolutionary, the founder and CEO of Theranos is now a 38-year-old pariah, doomed to spend the rest of her life as synonymous with deception and moral weakness as Enron’s Jeffrey Skilling and Kenneth Lay.
Skilling, Holmes and Kwon also have deeper commonalities. Crypto longtimers are well familiar with the main line of financial scams in the sector, mostly short cons like rug pulls and lazy lies about nonexistent partnerships. You learn to recognize the energy of such cynical operators, the glint in their eye that reveals their hole card.
Kwon stands out because that glint was never so obvious – like with Skilling and Holmes, it seems plausible he actually believed his own come-on. Despite reams of critical appraisals of the fundamental structure of Luna, Kwon not only stayed the course, but over the last 24 hours has angled to find more capital to flush through the holes in his sinking flagship. He’s nowhere near acknowledging that he put the holes there when he built it. At the very least, he’s doing a great impression of a man who really believes in what he’s selling.
See also: UST's Do Kwon Was Behind Failed Stablecoin Basis Cash
This matters immensely because there will inevitably be major lawsuits and even criminal prosecutions around the collapse of luna. The defense in those cases will almost certainly try and convince judges and juries (very much plural) that Kwon really believed in the project and that its failure was an honest shortfall, not a lengthy and complex deception.
The same argument was central to the Elizabeth Holmes criminal trial, which ended in January. Holmes founded her company at age 19 on the idea that blood testing could be miniaturized. But she had no real technological insights into how that might be accomplished, and what ensued was a multiyear series of compounding failures, evasions and deceptions. Holmes’ lawyers tried to argue that she had acted ineptly, but a jury found her guilty of fraud.
Do Kwon was not 19 when he launched TerraUSD, but in his late twenties. Nonetheless, he similarly promised investors something extremely cool and useful – a decentralized stablecoin – without a novel, or even sophisticated, approach to actually building one. In fact, he basically copy-pasted the tokenomics of projects that had already failed and that close observers warned for months would fail again under the Luna brand. Then it did fail - in May 2021, when TerraUSD’s market cap was just $2 billion.
Kwon essentially dismissed that first, smaller failure as an irrelevant glitch and made no real changes. Holmes, following similar motivated reasoning, faked early test demonstrations on the basis that she was so certain her technology would eventually work that papering over its present failure wasn’t actually lying. Kwon went on to defend his supposed innovation with such passion and vitriol that people gave him tens of billions of dollars, growing the paper value of LUNA to $40 billion and TerraUSD’s market cap to more than $18 billion.
What happened next was seemingly inevitable. But did Do Kwon himself understand that?
Freudian psychology is crucial to understanding this combination of conviction and fragility. The basic Freudian insight is that we don't really have full control of our behavior, that our conscious minds are often simply rationalizing behaviors that are actually guided by our unconscious desires. This is one general way to understand people’s tendency to double down on things that are obviously not true: Impulsive and impassioned people can’t easily modify their behavior to accord with even the most obvious reason.
So while they may on some level “know” that they’ve failed or made a mistake, these folks instead often just yell louder – what Freud might have called a reaction formation. In this habit of mind, a threatening or dangerous thought is pushed away by loudly, publicly declaring its exact opposite. When Elizabeth Holmes led her entire staff in a chant of “F**k you, Carreyrou!” after Wall Street Journal reporter John Carreyou's first expose on the fraudulent company, she wasn't just putting on a public performance – she was pushing away her own sneaking suspicion that she was a fraud.
Do Kwon showed exactly the same sort of reaction formation in the year leading up to this week’s meltdown. After the May 2021 depeg, he referred to his critics as “cockroaches.” In November, he referred to a detailed hypothetical description of the attack that occurred this week as “the most retarded thread I’ve read this decade.” When two threads in January sought to explain Luna’s fragility, Kwon personally called the analysts “idiot,” “stupid” and “dumbass.”
To those attuned to human perversity, such vitriol is a huge red flag, a sign to tread very cautiously. But anger is a confoundingly good marketing tactic when it comes to the less-reflective masses. Anger attracts attention – that’s why social media sites have been caught fostering anger to drive more user engagement. Supporters, or even mere onlookers, may see such outbursts as the understandable frustration of a victim getting a raw deal.
But anger can distort our reasoning, and some research has specifically found that it tends to increase confirmation bias by boosting self-confidence. In other words, when you’re angry – including when someone tells you to be angry – you’re more likely to think you’re right, and less likely to ask difficult questions.
Empires can be built on that kind of unquestioning conviction. But they will always be haunted by their blindness at the edges – and as we saw this week, that’s usually where the death blow comes from.
Kwon is similar to Holmes in at least one other way: He knew, whether out of Machiavellian insight or low animal cunning, that getting big names into his project would legitimize it in the eyes of other speculators. Elizabeth Holmes courted big-name board members like Henry Kissinger, George Schultz and James Mattis – notably, people with a lot of public credibility but very little knowledge of biosciences. Those backers were key to vaulting her into the limelight, and then keeping the Theranos fraud going.
Scrutiny over the last few days has highlighted just how much big-name support Kwon and Terra had. Where a low-rent exit scam might have hired a few celebrity shills, Kwon attracted reputable names to his cap table, garnering investments from the likes of Coinbase Ventures, Pantera Capital and perhaps most significantly Jump Trading, a longtime traditional equity trading firm that recently dove into crypto.
All of those entities should take time in the coming days to address their involvement in the project, whose fundamentals were so questionable it could become a black eye not only for its founder but for the crypto industry. Some backed Terraform Labs – the development team that built Terra-based tools and applications like the Mirror and Anchor protocols – rather than Luna/UST specifically, and should defensively clarify that if so.
Occam’s razor suggests some big-name investors weren’t necessarily driven by Terra’s fundamentals. Notoriously, discounts for early backers and short lockup periods can mean venture capitalists make plenty of money even when a crypto project fails. And even if these funds did in some sense believe in the project, that faith might have been premised more on Kwon’s blustering, made-for-2022 persona than on Terra’s technological potential.
That raises a final possible parallel to Holmes: Some have made the argument that she was to a degree herself a victim of the Silicon Valley funding machine. Some venture capitalists, the logic goes, saw the marketing potential of her story and image, but avoided scrutinizing her abilities and ideas. As dramatized in the Hulu series “The Dropout,” this made Holmes little more than a tool for generating alpha, to be cast aside if and when anything went wrong. Do Kwon, certainly, will come out of this more grievously damaged than any of the big shops that gave him money.
See also: Crisis in Terra's UST Stablecoin Spreads to Neutrino USD
Whatever their motives, these investors likely facilitated the sudden and huge run-up in retail participation in TerraUSD over the past year. It’s a dynamic that’s unique to crypto, because retail investors can’t usually access equity in the private companies that venture capitalists fund in traditional markets. In some ways, it’s a no-win situation: VCs are tuned for frequent failure, and so they can’t be held particularly responsible when average Janes follow them into a wrongheaded bet. Nonetheless, ethical crypto VCs may want to take a more responsible approach, given their power to signal confidence without always disclosing risks.
For professional investors who were truly taken in by Do Kwon – his grandstanding, his anger and all the rest – it may be time for even more serious self-reflection."
34,332,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/11/usts-do-kwon-was-behind-earlier-failed-stablecoin-ex-terra-colleagues-say/,"UST’s Do Kwon Was Behind Earlier Failed Stablecoin, Ex-Terra Colleagues Say","Basis Cash, an algorithmic stablecoin project founded by the anonymous “Rick” and “Morty” in 2020, was actually the work of Terraform Labs employees.",2022-05-11,"Do Kwon, the CEO of Terra creator Terraform Labs, was one of the pseudonymous co-founders behind the failed algorithmic stablecoin Basis Cash, CoinDesk has learned.
Basis Cash (BAC) was a closely watched revival in decentralized finance (DeFi) circles when it launched on Ethereum in late 2020, just before the launch of terraUSD (UST), Terra’s flagship stablecoin. Like UST, BAC sought to maintain a $1 peg through code, not collateral.
But it failed: The token of this long-abandoned project never achieved its target of dollar parity, sank below $1 in early 2021 and was trading well below 1 cent on Wednesday. Now history appears to be repeating: Over the last three days, UST sank precipitously below its peg, going as low as 27 cents in early morning U.S. hours Wednesday.
UST’s depegging has shocked crypto markets and regulators alike as the once-$15 billion stablecoin has continued its downward spiral. While BAC’s $54.5 million footprint was far smaller in impact, it offers a historical data point for observers grappling with the feasibility of algorithmic stablecoins.
Hyungsuk Kang, a former engineer at Terraform Labs (TFL), said Basis Cash was, in fact, a side project from some of Terra’s early creators, including himself and Kwon. Kang ultimately left TFL to build a Terra competitor called Standard Protocol.
“Basis Cash wasn’t tested at the moment, and we weren’t even sure” it would work, Kang said. Kwon “wanted to just test it out. He said that this was a pilot project for doing that.”
Another Basis Cash builder who spoke to CoinDesk on condition of anonymity confirmed that Do Kwon and TFL employees were behind the project.
Both Kang and the anonymous employee tell CoinDesk Kwon was “Rick Sanchez,” the pseudonymous co-founder. CoinDesk also reviewed internal “Basis Cash Korea (BCK)” chat logs in which Kwon alludes to himself as “Rick.”
(Kwon and his Basis Cash co-founder “Morty” borrowed their pseudonyms from the popular animated TV show “Rick and Morty.”)
Kwon did not respond to CoinDesk’s requests for comment.
Basis Cash never reached the heights of other Kwon-linked crypto projects. Its total value locked (TVL) briefly peaked at $174 million in February 2021, two orders of magnitude below Terra’s $30 billion TVL before this week’s historic sell-off.
Revealing the real name behind an online pseudonym (even a long-discarded one) is not a decision CoinDesk takes lightly. Our default position is to respect the privacy of pseudonymous actors with established reputations under their well-known handles unless there is an overwhelming public interest in revealing their real-world identities.
In this case, there is such public interest as Kwon’s UST stablecoin death spirals, wreaking havoc across the broader cryptocurrency market. Amid this precarious situation, investors deserve to know that UST was not Kwon’s sole attempt at making an algorithmic stablecoin work.
Basis Cash and its promise of an algorithmic stablecoin predated crypto Rick and Morty.
An anonymous team of builders – mostly employees of Terraform Labs, according to chat logs reviewed by CoinDesk – modeled Basis Cash after an earlier project called Basis (formerly known as Basecoin).
Basis, an erstwhile venture capital darling, raised $133 million before shutting its doors in 2018 over regulatory concerns. Founder Nader Al-Naji then said that “there would be no way” for Basis’s peg maintenance tokens to avoid securities designations; he shuttered the project rather than fight it out in court.
(Al-Naji would later launch a controversial crypto startup under a pseudonym before ultimately doxxing himself under pressure.)
Read more: 'Basis Cash' Launch Brings Defunct Stablecoin Into the DeFi Era
But Basis’s algorithmic ideals continued to float around stablecoin circles right on through to the heat of DeFi summer 2020, when Rick and Morty stepped in. Kwon and other algorithmic stablecoin adherents have long argued that the decentralized finance space needs a decentralized stable currency without censorship risk or central points of failure. Such an approach contrasts with that of market-leading stablecoins like Tether’s USDT and Circle’s USDC, which maintain their $1 peg by (in theory) backing every digital dollar with their centralized treasuries.
“Yo degens, anyone remember what Basis was? It was one of the early ‘DeFi’ algorithmic stablecoins with high ambitions, but it was shut down due to SEC-related risks,” said Rick’s since-deleted Telegram account in the Basis Cash Telegram channel on Aug. 20, 2020. “Today we’re bringing Basis back from the grave.”
Apparently intrigued by the early ideas behind Basis, Do Kwon directed a select group of TFL employees to resurrect what eventually became Basis Cash, Kang and another early TFL engineer say. The Korea-based project was envisioned as a way to test out the core concepts of the original Basis without falling prey to U.S. regulatory pitfalls.
CoinDesk’s sources say Kwon deliberately distanced himself from the day-to-day operations of the project, though he proposed most of the core ideas behind Basis Cash and its underlying token model. Analogous to UST, which relies on a token-burn mechanic involving its sister coin LUNA, BAC relies on a bonding mechanism to maintain its $1 peg.
Kwon also appeared to serve as a spokesperson for the project on Twitter and other forums under his “Rick” pseudonym (CoinDesk cannot confirm whether others ever filled in as “Rick,” but Kang, the other Basis Cash builder, and chat logs suggest the moniker primarily belonged to Kwon).
On its website, Basis Cash describes itself as a “Decentralized Stablecoin with an Algorithmic Central Bank,” and in a November 2020 interview with CoinDesk, “Rick” shared a vision for Basis Cash similar to that for UST.
“In the long term, we look forward to seeing Basis Cash be used widely as a base layer primitive such that there is organic demand for the asset in many DeFi and commercial settings,” he said over Telegram at the time.
One of the first examples of an algorithmic stablecoin to be tested in the wild, Basis Cash never found its footing. Game theory and smart contracts were supposed to regulate BAC’s supply to keep it trading at the price of $1, but the token never managed to hold on to its dollar peg.
By all outward appearances, Kwon had nothing to do the Basis Cash project. He has even made statements suggesting he was a critic:
But even amid Basis Cash’s struggles, Kwon’s main account could be spotted from time to time in the project’s Telegram, sans pseudonym.
A user surprised to find Terra’s founder in the Basis Cash Telegram group once asked Kwon what he was doing there.
“I like studying new things. Especially old things that are new again,” he responded.
Zack Seward contributed reporting.
UPDATE (May 11, 18:52 UTC): Adds section on Kwon’s Basis Cash Twitter criticisms."
35,109,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-at-16-month-low-as-ust-collapse-shows-risks-of-algo-stablecoins/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin at 16-Month Low as UST Collapse Shows Risks of 'Algo' Stablecoins,A number of algorithm-based stablecoins have already failed; bitcoin and other cryptos see deep red.,2022-05-11,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin hits its lowest point since December 2020 amid UST's implosion.
Insights: Algo stablecoins may not be such a great idea.
Technician's take: BTC is deeply oversold, but upside appears limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $28,550 -8.1%
Ether (ETH): $2,050 -12.8%
Cryptos tumble amid LUNA implosion
Ouch.
What else was there to say about Wednesday trading in crypto markets?
Bitcoin fell to $27,700 at one point to a 16-month low before regaining some ground, but it was still part of a mass sell-off of digital assets triggered by the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin implosion against its 1:1 dollar peg.
""It is a very nervous time in crypto markets following the collapse of the controversial stablecoin UST and as the majority of institutional crypto investors that invested last year are now losing money,"" Oanda Americas Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote.
Terra blockchain LUNA token token, which was created as a buffer against the volatility of UST stablecoin plunged 96% at one point after the Luna Foundation Guard, the non-profit established to support the Terra network, moved its reserves to bitcoin exchanges to defend the dollar peg. UST dropped as low as 23 cents before recovering to 77 cents later in the day. Stable it wasn't.
Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was recently trading at $28,500, down about 7%, although it fared better than most other major cryptos, underscoring its status as a less risky option during tumultuous times for the wider digital assets market. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was also off, declining approximately 11% over the same period, to roughly $2,050.
The charts were even darker red and included AVAX, SOL and SAND, which recently dropped 36%, 33% and 31%, respectively. Popular meme coins SHIB and DOGE tumbled about 29% and 26%, respectively.
Equity markets shared in the misery as investors digested the latest U.S. news on inflation, which ticked slightly lower in April, but remained at four-decade highs. The prices for groceries and other consumer goods, airline travel and service industries spiked amid rising energy costs and supply chain slowdowns exacerbated by Russia's unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
The tech-focused Nasdaq sank over 3% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average each dropped over 1%. Meanwhile, gold, the traditional safe haven against risk, increased about 1%.
""Today’s market reaction to the inflation report will make it hard to attract any investor who is still on the sidelines,"" Moya wrote. ""The risks on Wall Street are growing and now include a Fed policy mistake, liquidity and credit risks, and growth concerns.""
He added that bitcoin ""remains very vulnerable to further selling pressure and could see further technical selling if the $28,500 level breaks.""
S&P 500: 3,935 -1.6%
DJIA: 31,834 -1%
Nasdaq: 11,364 -3.1%
Gold: $1,852 +1%
Algorithmic stablecoins may not be such a great idea
LUNA and UST, the token and stablecoin of Singapore-based Terraform Labs, continued spiraling as UST’s key design imploded and trader sentiment around LUNA plummeted.
The impact wasn’t limited to niche regions of the internet either, as suicide helplines trended on community forums centered on Terra.
UST, a stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollars, fell to as low as 28 cents on Wednesday despite being backed by the likes of big-name crypto venture funds such as Three Arrows Capital and the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG).
The de-pegging, however, was unsurprising. Several algorithmic stablecoins have failed over the past two years and none have thrived.
Examples include Iron Finance and its TITAN tokens, Basis Cash, Empty Set Dollar, Dynamic Set Dollar and many more. These equated to millions of dollars in losses for investors.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are backed by a basket of assets, such as LUNA and bitcoin (BTC), without depending on any centralized third party to hold those assets. This is unlike tether and USD coin, whose parent firms claim to hold actual dollars in bank accounts to sufficiently back the values of USDT and USDC, respectively.
Tokens such as UST depend on LUNA to maintain a price of $1 using a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanics. Traders can always swap $1 worth of UST for $1 worth of LUNA and vice versa – with LUNA’s growing value serving as a shock absorber for UST's price.
However, the mechanism of algorithmically-governed stablecoins like UST makes them susceptible to the colloquial bank run.
As an example, consider Terra’s LUNA and UST tokens. A sudden fall in LUNA prices affects UST's entire stabilizing mechanism because users can no longer redeem their $1 of UST for $1 of LUNA. This creates a downward spiral as falling UST prices affect sentiment around LUNA, and a LUNA sell-off leads to lower UST prices.
A case in point is Wednesday’s price action. LUNA fell below $6 – a 96% drop since Tuesday – while UST slumped to 28 cents.
Analysts and market observers say algorithmic stablecoins remain a cause for concern now.
“Algorithmic stablecoins we see on the market today are innately brittle due to their design,” said Kate Kurbanova, cofounder of risk management platform Apostro, in a Telegram chat. “They try to hold the peg by using different algorithms, market incentives, and so on – but nevertheless, they are highly vulnerable and rely on the market and reference asset price.”
“However, such experiments work as there is a demand for stablecoins – especially when it comes to juicy APY,” Kurbanova added, reasoning their popularity.
The takeaway? Retail participants should perhaps stay away from algorithmic stablecoins that aren’t ready for prime time just yet, as the many failed experiments (and dollar losses) prove. It’s not like the crypto market isn’t enough of a risky asset class already.
Bitcoin Struggles Near $27K-$30K Support Zone
Bitcoin (BTC) is down by 6% over the past 24 hours and is trading at the bottom of a year-long price range. The cryptocurrency could find support between $27,000 and $30,000, although negative momentum signals point to additional breakdowns.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is deeply oversold, similar to what occurred on Jan. 24 of this year and May 20 of last year. Still, in a downtrend, oversold conditions can persist for a few weeks before an upswing in price occurs.
On the weekly chart, the RSI is the most oversold since March 2020, which preceded a strong rally. This time, however, long-term momentum has deteriorated, suggesting limited upside beyond the upper $40,000-$45,000 resistance zone.
For now, a relief rally could be brief, especially given the strong break below $35,000 last week.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia consumer inflation expectations (May)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan eco watchers survey current/outlook (April)
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): UK trade balance (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
UST Turmoil Continues, Ripple Effects on Bitcoin, Crypto Confidence, Inflation News and More
The crypto market sell-off continued as the algorithmic stablecoin UST failed to recover its peg to the U.S. dollar. ""First Mover"" had markets analysis and the latest developments in the UST crisis. Guests included David Lawant of Bitwise Asset Management, ADM Investor Services International Chief Economist Marc Ostwald and Deribit Chief Commercial Officer Luuk Strijers
The LUNA and UST Crash Explained in 5 Charts: One of the earliest signs that things were going wrong for Terra came when UST deposits on Anchor started dropping Saturday.
'$DAI Will Die' Tweet Twisted Back on Terra's Kwon as UST Loses $1 Peg: Terra's UST briefly fell below $6.5 billion in market cap on Wednesday morning, allowing DAI to be the fourth-biggest stablecoin on the market for a time.
Arrington Capital Scrubs $100M Anchor Yield Fund From Website After UST Upheaval: Founder Michael Arrington cited decreased demand for the decision to remove the fund from the company's website.
Coinbase's Q1 Revenue Misses Estimate as Trading Volume Drops: The U.S. crypto exchange's trading volume declined 44% from the fourth quarter.
UST’s Bitcoin Reserve Too Late in Coming to Save Dollar Peg: Luna Foundation Guard’s billions of dollars in bitcoin without an actual infrastructure ready to deploy left Terra’s stablecoin UST vulnerable to a ""Soros-style attack,"" an analyst said.
UST Stablecoin Loses Dollar Peg for Second Time in 48 Hours, LUNA Market Cap Falls Below UST's: The development comes after the Luna Foundation Guard announced that its massive bitcoin reserves will be used to defend UST’s dollar peg.
Bitcoin Payments Remain in Their Infancy but There Are Green Shoots Everywhere: Can cryptocurrencies, stablecoins and CBDCs coexist as methods of payment? Industry leaders shine a light on the future of crypto payments. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Payments Week.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Bitcoin?
Other voices: Crypto recovery in second half of 2022 is ‘unquestionable,’ says PolySign CEO (CNBC)
""Several current and former [Federal Reserve] officials have suggested in recent days that, in hindsight, the central bank should have reacted more quickly and forcefully last fall, but that both profound uncertainty about the future and the Fed’s approach to setting policy slowed it down."" (The New York Times) ... ""A recent survey of more than 13,000 businesses by Russia's central bank revealed that many are experiencing problems bringing goods such as microchips, car parts, packaging or even buttons, into the country as a result. Shortages of raw materials or parts are forcing some firms to temporarily close factories or to look elsewhere."" (BBC) ... ""Individuals’ willingness to backstop markets throughout this year’s sell-off demonstrates that the group – for now – has been more resilient than analysts and trading professionals anticipated."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
36,47,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/crisis-in-terras-ust-stablecoin-spreads-to-neutrino-usd-on-waves-protocol/,Crisis in Terra's UST Stablecoin Spreads to Neutrino USD on Waves Protocol,Algorithmic stablecoins are under pressure after Terra's UST lost its $1 peg.,2022-05-11,"Neutrino USD (USDN), an algorithmic stablecoin within the Waves blockchain ecosystem, slipped below its U.S. dollar peg after the largest algorithmic stablecoin, TerraUSD (UST), tumbled early Wednesday to as low as 23 cents.
USDN, which is supposed to maintain its price at $1, dropped 12% to 88 cents on Wednesday, according to data provider Messari. The Waves platform's native token, WAVES, fell 26% in the last 24 hours to $9.
USDN is the stablecoin of the Waves protocol and is similar by design to the Terra blockchain's algorithmic stablecoin, UST. Users need to lock the WAVES token into Neutrino's smart contracts to mint USDN, while USDN redemptions destroy the stablecoin to unlock WAVES supply, thus balancing supply and demand and keeping the stablecoin at the peg.
After the implosion of UST – which had a market capitalization of $18 billion before losing its peg and which crumpled the Terra ecosystem causing turmoil in the broader cryptocurrency markets – smaller algorithmic stablecoins saw increased pressure and their prices started to wobble.
""Clearly you are seeing the UST contagion spreading,"" Messari analyst Dustin Teander told CoinDesk. ""The Curve pool for USDN-3pool is now imbalanced with 92% being USDN. We saw the same sort of ratios play out on UST's Curve pools. This is usually a good sign the peg is under pressure and it requires new deposits to restore the balance.""
Crypto research firm Delphi Digital wrote in its daily report on Monday that while UST received most of the attention relating to de-pegging, smaller algorithmic stablecoins such as FRAX, FEI and USDN are facing the same danger. ""It remains to be seen whether each project will be robust enough to maintain its peg during these volatile times,"" the report said.
This is the second time in 40 days that USDN's price slipped significantly from the dollar peg. On April 4, USDN dropped by double-digit percentage points after users accused the platform of manipulating the price of the WAVES token through its decentralized finance (DeFi) lending platform Vires.finance. Waves CEO Sasha Ivanov dismissed the accusations and blamed short sellers – traders who bet on profiting on asset's price going down – for USDN's woes.
At press time, USDN was changing hands at 90 cents, but on the crypto exchange KuCoin, it traded at 79 cents, according to data from charting platform TradingView."
37,330,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/11/failure-should-be-an-option-senator-pat-toomey-says-of-ust-turmoil/,"'Failure Should Be an Option,' US Sen. Pat Toomey Says of UST Turmoil",The Banking Committee’s top Republican doesn’t want asset-backed stablecoins tarnished by the UST drama.,2022-05-11,"Pat Toomey, the Senate Banking Committee’s senior Republican, said Wednesday algorithmic stablecoins may not pose a risk to the financial sector the same way fully reserved asset-backed stablecoins might.
The junior senator from Pennsylvania commented as the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin continued to languish far below the dollar peg it was designed to track.
""It does make sense that this episode with Terra would refocus attention on stablecoins generally,” Toomey told reporters on a conference call, but he defended tokens backed by assets such as cash and securities and said he doesn’t see them as a risk to the financial system, as suggested by U.S. regulators.
“And, by the way, failure should be an option,” Toomey said. “It’ll probably take some failures in this space in order for the market to figure out what works.”
Toomey, who last month pushed his own legislation for the future U.S. oversight of stablecoins, is serving out the remainder of his term before retiring in January. So he won’t be leading the committee if his party wins back the Senate majority after this year’s midterm elections.
In an exchange with U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen on Tuesday, Toomey similarly defended the broader stablecoin market by pointedly clarifying that UST was an algorithmic stablecoin not backed by the same kind of reserves that support other tokens."
38,328,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/market-wrap-cryptos-extend-losses-as-luna-plunges/,Market Wrap: Cryptos Extend Losses as LUNA Plunges,"Bitcoin declined by as much as 6% over the past 24 hours, as LUNA dropped 96% and SOL fell 30%.",2022-05-11,"It was a sea of red in crypto markets on Wednesday as stablecoin woes kept some traders on edge.
Terra's LUNA token plunged for the third consecutive day, declining by as much as 96% over the past 24 hours. LUNA was meant to be a buffer against volatility for the stablecoin TerraUSD (UST), but it has succumbed to extreme selling pressure. The Luna Foundation Guard moved the entirety of its reserves to bitcoin exchanges to defend its UST stablecoin’s 1:1 dollar peg on Wednesday.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Further, the European Commission is considering a ban on large-scale stablecoins, which have become widely used in place of fiat currency, according to a document seen by CoinDesk.
Bitcoin (BTC) declined by as much as 6% over the past 24 hours, compared with a 9% decline in ether (ETH) and a 30% decline in Solana's SOL token. Bitcoin is outperforming most alternative cryptos (altcoins), which typically occurs in a down market because of its lower risk profile relative to smaller tokens.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $29,155, −6.40%
●Ether (ETH): $2,104, −10.31%
●S&P 500 daily close: $3,935, −1.65%
●Gold: $1,853 per troy ounce, +0.71%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.92%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin's trading volume has ticked higher over the past few days, albeit by less than in previous spikes. That could be an initial sign of capitulation as BTC stabilizes at about $30,000.
""The volume surge is especially interesting considering the dwindling spot volumes we have seen during the latest month, as April saw the lowest bitcoin spot volumes since last summer,"" Arcane Research wrote in a report earlier this week. ""The recent uptick in volatility seems to have woken up traders.""
BTC's front-month implied volatility also spiked to its highest level since March. Traders are expecting greater price swings over the short term, although volatility spikes tend to be short-lived.
QCP Capital, a Singapore-based crypto trading firm, noted large amounts of put demand from its option trading desk this week, which pushed BTC and ETH risk reversals (calls minus puts) even more negative from -8% to -15%. QCP expects more volatility over the short term.
The chart below shows a rise in BTC's put/call ratio, which suggests bearish sentiment among option traders. The ratio is at its highest level since February, which preceded an upswing in price.
Further, open interest in bitcoin's perpetual swaps market surged to a new high on Tuesday. That suggests an increase in leverage among derivative traders, which typically leads to sharp price swings – a relief rally or breakdown.
Still, the cost to fund long positions (funding rate) remains neutral, which means some traders are still willing to increase exposure to BTC despite the current stress. Typically, funding rates collapse during sell-offs.
Terra to the ground: The Terra blockchain’s native token, LUNA, plunged to as low as $1, shedding 96% of its value in just a day. LUNA is supposed to absorb price shocks of the blockchain algorithmic stablecoin, TerraUSD (UST), but UST’s failure to regain its $1 peg made LUNA virtually worthless. Some traders betted on LUNA to recover on the futures market, but after prices continued nosediving, liquidations amounted to $106 million. Read more here
Contagion spreads to algos: UST’s crisis puts immense pressure on other algorithmic stablecoins. Neutrino USD (USDN), the stablecoin of the Waves decentralized finance protocol, seems to be the first to shake: USDN dropped below 80 cents on certain exchanges from its $1 peg, while the protocol's native token, WAVES, fell by 26% in a day. Delphi Digital reported earlier this week that the FRAX, FEI and USDN stablecoins are facing the same danger as UST because of their similarity in design and weak points. Read more here
Stepn up: Stepn, a ""move-to-earn"" application on the Solana (SOL) blockchain that allows users to get cryptocurrency rewards from walking or jogging, is getting traction in digital-asset markets. The fitness app has grown to more than 300,000 daily active users in a few months, while its native token GMT is traded at 17 times its launch price in March. “This actually has value in the long run,” Fundstrat’s Will McEvoy said. Read more here
Listen 🎧: The CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast takes a deep dive into the Fed and recent market volatility.
UST’s Do Kwon Was Behind Earlier Failed Stablecoin, Ex-Terra Colleagues Say: Basis Cash, an algorithmic stablecoin project founded by the anonymous “Rick” and “Morty” in 2020, was actually the work of Terraform Labs employees.
Coinbase Shares Plunge as Weak Earnings Prompt Near-Term Caution: Wall Street analysts lowered share price targets for the crypto exchange after its first-quarter earnings report.
Germany Publishes First Nationwide Tax Guide for Crypto: The finance ministry's letter deals with the income tax treatment of mining, staking, lending, hard forks and airdrops.
Global Financial Stability Watchdog FSB Says It Could Write Crypto Rulebook: The Financial Stability Board joins tax and money-laundering bodies in responding to calls for coordinated international action to regulate the industry.
Nubank, Brazil’s Largest Digital Bank, Launches Bitcoin and Ether Trading: The trading and custody service is being provided by blockchain infrastructure company Paxos.
5 US States Issue Emergency Orders to Shut Down Metaverse Casino With Alleged Russian Ties: A multi-state cease-and-desist letter issued Wednesday calls the Flamingo Casino Club “simply a high-tech scam.”
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
39,327,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/11/terra-founder-do-kwon-supports-communitys-ust-proposal-luna-drops-to-22/,"Terra Founder Do Kwon Supports Community's UST Proposal, LUNA Slides",The proposal seeks to bring UST back to its intended $1 peg.,2022-05-11,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon said Wednesday the company is supporting a community proposal that could help TerraUSD (UST), a stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar, regain its peg.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are supposed to be automatically pegged to the price of another currency. By design, 1 UST can be redeemed or minted for exactly $1 worth of LUNA at any time, which in theory helps retain its value. The project, however, later added a bitcoin reserve as additional backing
UST, however, lost its peg and fell to as low as 66 cents on Monday. It regained 90 cents on Tuesday before slumping to lows of less than 35 cents during Asian trading hours on Wednesday. That was accompanied by a steep drop in the price of LUNA.
Kwon, who has been uncharacteristically silent on Twitter over the past few days, says there’s a plan to bring UST back to its peg.
“The price stabilization mechanism is absorbing UST supply (over 10% of total supply),” Kwon wrote in a tweet during European trading hours, explaining how UST works. “But the cost of absorbing so many stablecoins at the same time has stretched out the on-chain swap spread to 40%, and LUNA price has diminished dramatically absorbing the arbs.”
Arbs refers to arbitrage, or a trading strategy used by traders who buy and sell LUNA and UST to maintain the peg and make a profit by doing so.
“The only path forward will be to absorb the stablecoin supply that wants to exit before $UST can start to repeg. There is no way around it,” Kwon said, adding that Terra endorsed the community proposal “1164,” which proposes increasing the minting capacity of Terra’s LUNA from $293 million to over $1.2 billion.
That means additional LUNA would be minted and sold in the market to try to bring UST’s peg back to $1. That is in addition to a separate proposal that aims to offer lower yield to users of Anchor, a Terra product.
The proposal explains: “[By allowing] more efficient UST burning and LUNA minting, [which] will in the short term put pressure to LUNA price, but will be an effective way to bring UST back to peg, which will eventually stabilize LUNA price.”
Meanwhile, LUNA fell to $2.2 in the past hour as traders anticipated further supply increases to add to selling pressure on the token, CoinDesk data shows.
Read more: Anchor Community Submits Proposal to Restore UST Peg
UPDATE (May 11, 11:45 UTC): Removes LUNA price from headline.
UPDATE (May 11, 12:55 UTC): Updates stablecoin definition in second graph."
40,326,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/11/arrington-capital-scrubs-100m-anchor-yield-fund-from-website-after-ust-upheaval/,Arrington Capital Scrubs $100M Anchor Yield Fund From Website After UST Upheaval,Founder Michael Arrington cited decreased demand for the decision to remove the fund from the company's website.,2022-05-11,"Arrington Capital, a crypto native investment firm with over $1.6 billion in assets under management, has removed mention of its $100 million fund tied to Anchor, a yield-generating protocol on the Terra blockchain, from its website. Deposits to the protocol are mostly in the crisis-stricken stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
Arrington Capital announced the $100 million Arrington Anchor Yield Fund in November to provide institutional investors with insured exposure to the “stable yield” generated by the Anchor Protocol. The fund was backed by Arrington Capital partners and Terraform Labs.
The Anchor Yield Fund was listed on the firm’s main website in a screenshot taken on May 1. The mention has since been removed.
“Risk Harbor Anchor UST insurance hasn't been widely available – we were holding off on taking any third-party funds until we could purchase that insurance at scale. I anticipate decreased demand for the product this fund was offering, so I removed it from the website,” founder Michael Arrington told CoinDesk in an email.
Asked whether the fund would continue to exist, Arrington responded, “We are not currently raising capital for this fund.”
Founded in 2017 by TechCrunch and CrunchBase founder Arrington and TechCrunch CEO Heather Harde, Arrington Capital offers the flagship Arrington XRP Capital and the $100 million Arrington Algorand Growth Fund, which was announced last July.
Read more: Investors Flee Terra’s Anchor as UST Stablecoin Repeatedly Loses $1 Peg"
41,139,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/11/regulators-should-pay-attention-to-ust/,Regulators Should Pay Attention to UST,A stablecoin de-pegged. People lost money. It ain’t great.,2022-05-11,"Over the weekend, algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) broke its peg. It broke it again on Monday and has yet to recover. Regulators may have to take a closer look at this particular model of stablecoin.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
TerraUSD, a dollar-pegged algorithmic stablecoin, lost its peg twice over the past few days and hasn’t regained it since its last decoupling.
The UST collapse may pose a number of risks, ranging from investor/retail to institutional. While this is a relatively small-cap cryptocurrency and its footprint is relatively contained, it still has some major implications for the sector, particularly if it spooks lawmakers or regulators already concerned about stablecoin collapse.
UST’s price fell to 23 cents and has a 24-hour high of 92 cents. This would be a somewhat normal amount of crypto volatility, but the added twist here is UST is supposed to be a stablecoin, meaning its price should be 1:1 to the U.S. dollar.
If you’re deep into crypto and/or have followed this story closely, go ahead and jump down to the “Outside Impact” subheading.
For new readers of this newsletter, or for those who don’t normally follow stablecoins that in depth, the idea is you have a cryptocurrency whose value is stable relative to another asset, such as the dollar, which you can then use as an intermediate unit of exchange or to buy goods and services using crypto without having to worry about market volatility.
There are a few ways to achieve this type of price stability. Stablecoins like USDT, USDC and BUSD are backed by reserves. The issuers say that for every unit of their respective stablecoin in circulation, there is a matching U.S. dollar in a bank account somewhere.
Stablecoins like the now-defunct diem (formerly libra) intended to be issued by an organization launched by Meta (formerly Facebook) would have been backed by a basket of different assets. In the original libra’s case, this would have been a basket of various currencies.
Algorithmic stablecoins are different. Rather than being backed 1:1 by dollars or other currency, the idea is you have two tokens, the stablecoin itself and a sister token that is issued (created) or burned (destroyed) as needed to maintain the stablecoin’s price.
This sister token (named terra but with the ticker LUNA; I’m just going to refer to it as LUNA for the purposes of this newsletter) can be invested in tools that make the Terra ecosystem more valuable. In theory, UST should always be redeemable for LUNA at the price of $1 per UST.
According to the Luna Foundation Guard, a Singapore-registered non-profit entity meant to support UST’s price stability, arbitraging trades is one way that LUNA can be used to maintain its peg.
“Unlike other stablecoins that are backed by fixed deposits of the pegged fiat currency or over-collateralized in another [decentralized finance] asset, the value of Terra’s family of stablecoins is maintained through a system of arbitrage incentives, open market operations, and dynamic protocol levers that maintain robust peg stability and scalability of its supply without the centralized control or capital-inefficient designs of incumbents,” the Luna Foundation Guard’s website says.
Anyways:
So, yeah, the peg broke a little bit.
It’s worth noting that the 24-hour high – 85 cents – means UST hasn’t regained its peg in over a day (since Monday, really).
A lot of people lost or are losing money on UST and/or LUNA. Institutions are likely in a similar boat, and there are broader market implications as well.
LFG was rumored to be seeking up to $1.5 billion in funding to help prop up UST’s peg, even as LFG loaned close to $1.4 billion in bitcoin (BTC) for the same purpose.
So I have to imagine regulators are paying close attention. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen already brought UST up during a U.S. Senate Banking Committee hearing as a representative of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC).
“I would note that there was a report just this morning … that a stablecoin known as terraUSD had experienced a run and had declined in value,” Yellen told Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) on Tuesday. “I think that simply illustrates that this is a rapidly growing product and there are risks to financial stability and we need a framework.”
Toomey seems to disagree about the risk aspect: He told reporters on Wednesday that because UST is not backed by reserves in the same way fully backed stablecoins are, they don’t post the same kind of financial stability risk.
Still, it does seem that whatever is happening with LUNA and UST is having some influence on the broader crypto market.
The question is which regulator even has jurisdiction over this sector.
And LUNA/UST themselves, without problems, might have securities law tie-ups
Back in 2018, a project called Basis raised over $130 million to create an algorithmic stablecoin with a two-token structure, similar to LUNA and UST.
The project refunded investors after the Securities and Exchange Commission warned that the company might violate federal law if it did not limit itself to accredited investors.
As an aside, this project was resurrected in 2020 by some anonymous developers who felt that being anonymous would insulate them from regulators. One of these anonymous individuals was none other than Do Kwon, the face of the Terra ecosystem and the founder of Terraform Labs, which initially launched UST and LUNA.
What’s more, we know the SEC has Kwon on its radar – officials at the regulatory agency famously served him a subpoena during a New York conference in 2021 tied to Mirror Protocol, another project in which he’s involved.
Banking regulators or those tasked with overseeing the financial institutions that backed LUNA may also have questions, particularly if the companies under their purview are suddenly heavily down on their investments. Furthermore, there may not be any single federal regulator able to oversee some of the institutions that invested in LUNA, which could be good or bad depending on whether they’ve lost significant amounts of their investors’ money – some of the earlier investors may have made significant returns if they closed their positions out or sold any equity they may have gained through later funding rounds.
Congress will likely pay attention at some point as well.
Ron Hammond of the Blockchain Association said while stablecoins have been on Congress’s radar for a while now, all the bills addressing this sector of the crypto world have focused on asset-backed stablecoins.
“That's completely changed,” he said. “It's changed a lot of conversations.”
Algorithmic stablecoins are now definitely things lawmakers are paying attention to, but how they might approach this is unclear.
Moreover, it’s going to take some time to figure out exactly what happened, what the risks are and whether there are additional risks.
This is the type of situation that might put pressure on Congress, though just the fact that real people are getting hurt by this situation.
Lisa Cook has officially been confirmed to be a member of the Federal Reserve’s Board of Governors.
In Estonia, the Party’s Over for 'Hippie' Crypto Firms: Estonia enacted a new crypto licensing law requiring local exchanges and other businesses to abide by some strict new rules, including capital reserve requirements, know-your-customer requirements and governance structures. Something like 90% of the country’s crypto firms may leave as a result.
Typo Moves $36M in Seized JUNO Tokens to Wrong Wallet: Juno is a crypto project that airdropped tokens to investors and, in what may have been a genuinely novel governance episode, decided to penalize one airdrop recipient who may have gamed the system to gain more tokens than he should have. This was all very decentralized and then the confiscated tokens were sent to a wallet no one can access by mistake.
(BuzzFeed News) Sometimes I read something and think, “yeah that makes sense.” This was not one of those times.
(Vice) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) purchased location data on “tens of millions” of phones in the U.S. to track people’s compliance with COVID-19 lockdowns and identify patterns, Vice reported. The data came from data brokers like SafeGraph, a Peter Thiel-backed firm that aggregates this type of information.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
42,142,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/anchor-community-submits-proposal-to-restore-ust-peg/,Anchor Community Submits Proposal to Restore UST Peg,Algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD has fallen sharply from its $1 peg over the past 48 hours.,2022-05-11,"The Anchor Protocol community has submitted a proposal to restore the TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which was trading at 57 cents at the time of writing, to its $1 peg.
Dubbed ""Emergency measures for restoring Terra peg,"" the proposal aims to lower minimum interest rates to 3.5% and maximum deposit rates to 5.5%.
Anchor is a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform where the majority of UST staking/borrowing takes place. It has seen its total volume locked (TVL) slump to about $3 billion from almost $18 billion.
The current yield of 18% would be temporarily reduced with a ""targeted interest rate of 4%,"" according to the proposal. ""A depegged UST cannot sustain 18% APY any longer,"" according to the post, referring to an annual percentage yield.
Reducing the interest rate would prevent the Anchor reserve from depleting and contribute to ""stopping the depeg death spiral.""
Another proposed emergency measure is to increase virtual liquidity for Terra to Luna swaps by a factor of 1,000 to avoid a prolonged UST depeg.
TVL for Anchor Protocol has dropped to $2.61 billion from last week's high of $17.15 billion, according to DeFiLlama.
The protocol's native token, ANC, has lost 69% of its value in the past 24 hours and was recently trading at about 26 cents.
CORRECT (May 11, 11:05 UTC): Correct stablecoin's name to TerraUSD. An earlier version had it as US Terra."
43,333,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/11/ust-meltdown-hasnt-spurred-us-financial-stability-council-meeting-sources/,UST Meltdown Hasn't Spurred US Financial Stability Council Meeting: Sources,U.S. federal officials aren’t getting together to follow the game plan that’s typical when mainstream financial firms flounder.,2022-05-11,"The sudden meltdown of an investment firm or money market fund often spurs U.S. government officials to action, with regulators gathering on urgent calls to decide whether and how to intervene. As one of crypto world’s major stablecoins – TerraUSD (UST) – slid toward disaster this week, it hasn’t triggered any such meetings.
Despite the recent federal stance that stablecoins could pose a rising threat to the U.S. financial system, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) hasn’t gathered to weigh the potential hazards from UST, according to two people with knowledge of the situation. Though the panel of agency chiefs hasn’t met as a group, the Treasury Department and top financial regulators are monitoring the plummet of the dollar-pegged algorithmic stablecoin – which at one point Wednesday sold for a quarter.
The situation even warranted a mention from U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen in a Tuesday hearing in the Senate. Yellen, who leads the FSOC, said the token was experiencing a run that “illustrates that this is a rapidly growing product, and that there are risks to financial stability.”
A Treasury spokesman declined to comment on any internal discussions regarding UST.
Dollar-pegged stablecoins – the core assets whose steady values are meant to allow investors to reliably trade in and out of more volatile cryptocurrencies – typically hew to the price of a dollar, much like money market funds’ promise to give back at least a dollar for each one invested (though they additionally provide a small return over time, unlike stablecoins).
When the Reserve Primary Fund infamously “broke the buck” in the 2008 financial meltdown, the implosion of a major money market fund was a doomsday event that panicked the financial world. In the end, its slide took it down to $0.97 a share, though the failed fund eventually returned about $0.99 to its investors after a government intervention.
There are two significant reasons UST’s plight isn’t forcing a government response: the relatively small scale of the industry and the fact that oversight is so undefined. Federal officials have routinely said that the stablecoin market – now at $173 billion, according to coinmarketcap.com – is still paltry compared with the others overseen by such agencies as the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission. And the industry’s regulatory oversight remains an open question, leaving federal officials uncertain about their reach.
Even if the agencies wanted to step in as UST users are losing billions, it’s uncertain which one would have authority to protect investors. And unlike regulated investments, which enjoy government backstops such as insurance from the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), there’s no such protection for those who put their dollars into UST, which topped at $18 billion."
44,337,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/12/investor-concerns-about-galaxy-digitals-luna-exposure-are-overblown-btig-says/,"Investor Concerns About Galaxy Digital's LUNA Exposure Are Overblown, BTIG Says","Galaxy Digital’s stock has plummeted more than 40% this week, but a BTIG analyst says LUNA-related concerns are unwarranted.",2022-05-12,"Investor concerns about Galaxy Digital (GLXY.TO) being subject to significant losses given its exposure to Terra’s LUNA token are “clearly unwarranted,” BTIG equity research analyst Mark Palmer told clients in a note Thursday.
Shares of Galaxy have plunged more than 40% this week and were down over 20% on Wednesday. They were falling 1.6% to US$8.02 on Thursday.
In its recent management discussion and analysis filing for the quarter ending March 31, Galaxy said the largest contributor in the quarter to its $355 million in net realized gains on its digital assets came from sales of LUNA. Galaxy had previously said in its fourth-quarter earnings release that it held $407.6 million worth of LUNA as of Dec. 31.
“Our takeaway from GLXY’s disclosures regarding its LUNA exposure is that it appears that the company had sold all or most of its position at a healthy gain during 1Q22, reflecting the token’s strong appreciation during 2021,” Palmer wrote.
Galaxy did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) recently lost its 1:1 peg to the U.S. dollar, while Terra’s native LUNA token extended its precipitous decline this week.
BTIG reiterated a buy rating on Galaxy with a C$37 ($28) price target.
Galaxy said earlier this week it had won approval from its board to buy back up to 10% of shares in light of current market conditions."
45,338,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/12/global-crypto-regulatory-body-is-coming-soon-says-top-official/,"Global Crypto Regulatory Body Is Coming Soon, Says Top Official","A joint body to coordinate efforts at regulating crypto at the global level could become a reality in the next year, according to IOSCO chair Ashley Alder.",2022-05-12,"A joint body tasked with coordinating crypto regulation globally is sorely needed and could become a reality within the next year, according to Ashley Alder, chair of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), an association of market regulators.
Alder was speaking at an online conference organized by the think tank Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum (OMFIF). Alder, who is also the CEO of Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission, said the growth of digital currency markets and their increasing connection to mainstream finance has made crypto a top focus area for regulators around the world.
""Crypto has obviously rocketed up the agenda,"" Alder said, adding that crypto is now one of the three 'C's' that represent the top focus area for regulators, alongside COVID and climate change.
The financial world is focused on crypto this week as markets crashed, exacerbated by the collapse of the stablecoin terraUSD (UST). Early Thursday, bitcoin (BTC) was trading at a 16-month low.
""If you look at the risks we need to address, they are multiple, and there is a wall of worry about [crypto] in the conversations at an institutional level,"" Alder said.
According to Alder, a global group designed to coordinate crypto rules is clearly needed. Alder said that global climate finance efforts are ""far ahead"" compared to crypto regulation, despite the importance of crypto in the global conversation.
""There isn't anything like that for crypto at the moment,"" said Alder, adding that this is likely to change by the same time next year.
Read more: Global Financial Stability Watchdog FSB Says It Could Write Crypto Rulebook"
46,335,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/ether-futures-lead-12b-in-liquidations-crypto-market-cap-drops-16-overnight/,"Ether Futures Lead $1.2B in Liquidations, Crypto Market Cap Drops 16% Overnight",The past 24 hours were among of the biggest crypto market drops in recent months.,2022-05-12,"Ether (ETH) futures led liquidation losses in the past 24 hours as crypto markets lost over 16% of their overall capitalization, data from multiple sources shows.
Liquidations in the crypto market happen when a trader has insufficient funds to fund a margin call – or a call for extra collateral demanded by the exchange to keep the trading position funded. They’re especially common in high-risk trading due to the high volatility of assets. It occurs in both margins and futures trading.
Traders of ether futures lost $333 million to liquidations as the asset lost 22% to drop under the $1,900 level. This was the highest among all cryptos, with bitcoin futures seeing $330 million in losses and futures tracking Terra’s LUNA racking up $130 million in losses.
Losses exceeded $1.2 billion in the past 24 hours, the highest so far this year. They came as major cryptocurrencies saw steep drops: Bitcoin (BTC) fell 11%, BNB Chain’s BNB lost 26%, and Solana’s SOL lost 37%. Terra’s LUNA fell out of the top 10 cryptos by market capitalization to the 81st rank – it fell 96% in the past 24 hours to under 40 cents.
Crypto exchange OKX saw $393 million in liquidations, the highest among all crypto exchanges, followed by Binance at $389 million and Bybit at $155 million.
Data shows 83% of all futures were long, or betting on higher prices, despite weakness in the overall market earlier this week. Much of the systemic risk arose from terraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin issued by Terraform Labs, losing its peg with the U.S. dollar and causing a cascading effect on decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms running on Terra.
Contagion associated with UST likely spread over to the broader market alongside inflation fears and weak CPI data, fueling a drop in crypto prices.
Meanwhile, data shows open interest – or the amount of unsettled futures contracts – fell 10% in the past 24 hours, implying traders removed liquidity and exited positions in anticipation of further volatility."
47,342,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/terra-based-defi-protocol-anchor-proposes-cutting-ust-yield-rates-to-4/,Terra-Based DeFi Protocol Anchor Proposes Cutting UST Yield Rates to 4%,The proposal comes amid ongoing concerns regarding the long-term stability of Terra tokens LUNA and UST.,2022-05-12,"The contributors of Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol Anchor have proposed cutting terraUSD (UST) rates to an average of 4% from the current 19.5% as the broader Terra ecosystem seeks measures to protect UST’s peg with U.S. dollars.
“Decrease minimum interest rates to 3.5%, and maximum deposit rates to 5.5%, with a targeted interest rate of 4%,” the ongoing proposal describes.
Some 244,000 anchor (ANC) tokens have been used to place votes on “yes” at writing time. ANC is Anchor Protocol's governance token that users can deposit or stake to create new governance polls, or vote on existing pools started by users that have staked ANC.
Anchor is a savings, lending and borrowing platform built on the Terra platform that allows users to earn yields on UST deposits and take out loans against holdings. Critics have previously touted its “stable high interest rate” – as described on its website – as unsustainable due to the high amounts of money required to maintain those rates.
In the past few months, Anchor continued to operate as intended and became the biggest DeFi application on Terra. But UST’s recent depegging from the dollar has made the protocol’s grandiose plans go awry.
UST fell to as low as 22 cents on Wednesday amid outflows from Anchor and LUNA’s rapid drop, causing a downward spiral. UST has since recovered somewhat but the long-term recovery remains unclear.
“A depegged UST cannot sustain 18% APY any longer,” wrote Anchor contributor Daniel Hong in a relevant forum post. “While some may argue higher interest rates help with less UST circulating supply, when the stablecoin have already lost trust from the public due to a [two]-day depeg people would try to exit anyways.”
“One significant factor for today’s depeg was the release of Terra’s stability reserve into the Anchor reserve every time it was depleted, introducing newly minted UST that was not supposed to be there into circulation,” Hong wrote, explaining UST’s price plunge on Wednesday.
Hong, however, added the “fairly aggressive” change would be rolled back as and when deemed necessary, meaning the 4% interest rate may increase in the future should market conditions improve."
48,334,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/12/luna-issuer-terra-halts-blockchain-after-week-of-losses/,"LUNA, UST Issuer Terra Restarts Blockchain After Brief Shutdown","The price of LUNA fell too low to prevent governance attacks, Terraform Labs tweeted when it announced the network had been halted.",2022-05-12,"The Terra blockchain restarted around 1:45 p.m. ET Thursday after validators briefly halted the network to implement a patch that would prevent new actors from staking on it after the terra token (LUNA) fell to below 2 cents earlier in the day.
A block explorer confirmed the network had restarted after Terraform Labs, the company behind the Terra ecosystem, tweeted that the network had halted at block height 7603700. Terraform said the price of LUNA fell too low to ""prevent governance attacks,"" citing LUNA inflation as one factor. By late Thursday, LUNA had fallen to less than 1 cent from nearly $120 in early April.
The Terra ecosystem includes the LUNA governance token and several algorithmic stablecoins, including TerraUSD (UST).
The blockchain being halted meant no transactions with UST, LUNA or Terra's other cryptocurrencies could be processed. Token holders had to wait for the blockchain to restart.
Terraform said the network's validators ""will coordinate"" to restart the network shortly, once a patch to limit how many new parties could act as validators on the network was applied.
LUNA's price plummeted by over $80 in three days. UST, one of the paired stablecoins, broke its peg to the U.S. dollar on Monday, dropping to 37 cents at press time. Terraform issued more than 1 billion LUNAs as circulating supply as part of an effort to reduce the selling pressure seen since Monday.
The UST stablecoin, which is supposed to maintain price parity with the U.S. dollar, lost its peg over the last weekend, but briefly recovered. It fell again on Monday, dropping to as low as 27 cents and has yet to recover its peg with the dollar.
The LUNA governance token, which is meant to act as a buffer keeping UST at $1, has lost value in conjunction, but didn't fall below UST until sometime between Wednesday and Thursday.
UPDATE (May 12, 2022, 16:40 UTC): Updated with additional context.
UPDATE (May 12, 2022, 18:07 UTC): Updated with confirmation that the Terra blockchain had restarted.
UPDATE (May 13, 2022, 00:48 UTC): Updated with LUNA price falling to less than 1 cent in second paragraph.)"
49,336,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/tether-loses-1-peg-bitcoin-drops-to-2020-levels-of-near-24k/,"Tether Loses $1 Peg, Bitcoin Drops to 2020 Levels of Near $24K",Weak sentiment around stablecoins may have contributed to USDT’s depegging Thursday morning.,2022-05-12,"The tether (USDT) stablecoin snapped to 97 cents in Asian hours, losing its parity with the U.S. dollar at writing time. It slumped to as low as 96 cents on Coinbase.
Separately, bitcoin (BTC) lost the $27,000 support level and dropped to $25,400, reaching levels previously seen in December 2020.
Traders sold USDT for U.S. dollars amid poor sentiment for stablecoins in crypto communities. Algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) earlier this week depegged to as low as 22 cents from its intended $1 level, while Waves’ USDN stablecoin showed signs of weakness on Wednesday night.
The sell-off came even as USDT issuer Tether's Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino confirmed on Twitter earlier Thursday that Tether was continuing to honor “USDT redemptions at 1$” via its website.
CoinDesk confirmed separately with Tether that redemptions continue as normal in European morning hours.
""Tether continues to process redemptions normally amid some expected market panic following yesterday's market,"" a Tether spokesperson said in an email. ""Tether has not and will not refuse redemptions to any of its customers, which has always been its practice.""
""On Bitfinex the Tether peg is >1$ while on Kraken it is slightly lower than 1$. This has resulted in arbitrageurs buying USDT cheap on Kraken and selling it on Bitfinex for profit. While other market makers have bought USDT < 1$ on Kraken and directly redeemed it for 1$, still enjoying the profit. But all this is pure market dynamics and has absolutely nothing to do with the value of tether, which continues to hold its peg,"" the spokesperson further explained."
50,339,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/terras-luna-has-dropped-997-in-under-a-week-thats-good-for-ust/,Terra’s LUNA Has Dropped 99.7% in Under a Week. That’s Good for UST,"LUNA tokens lost 96% in the past 24 hours alone, prompting more to be minted in a mechanism that helped lift the UST price.",2022-05-12,"Traders of Terra’s LUNA tokens suffered some of their biggest weekly losses in recent months as prices fell 99.7% in a week, data shows.
The LUNA price fell 96% in the past 24 hours alone, pushing it to less than 10 cents. That's down from about $60 earlier this week and a record $120 in mid-April.
A change in market dynamics caused LUNA prices to snap at a breakneck pace. LUNA plummeted through several support levels as terraUSD (UST), a Terra-issued stablecoin that's meant to be priced 1:1 to the U.S. dollar, lost its peg.
The selling pressure on LUNA started over the weekend as investors liquidated their earnings on Anchor, a Terra protocol for earning yields on UST, pushing interest rates lower, analytics suggest.
That's because of how algorithmic stablecoins like UST operate. One UST can be redeemed or minted for exactly $1 worth of LUNA at any time. In theory that helps UST retain its value and creates demand for both tokens.
Traders can continuously buy and sell LUNA and UST to maintain the peg and profit by doing so, incentivizing them to maintain UST’s peg.
This week’s drop in the UST price – it fell to as low as 22 cents Wednesday – caused additional LUNA to be minted and issued into the open market. According to Messari data, LUNA's circulating supply more than tripled to 1.4 billion tokens on Thursday from 377 million two days ago.
The vastly increased supply added selling pressure on LUNA tokens, as the price drop shows. At the same time, it put UST on a path to recovery, with the tokens recovering to the 60 cents level in European morning hours on Thursday.
In addition, Terra proposed several measures on Thursday that would save UST's peg and prevent LUNA from getting severely diluted.
The week's slump in LUNA pushed it out of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization to rank 81st this morning. The tokens were valued at just under $4 billion last week, while on Thursday the capitalization snapped down to $720 million.
Still, some market observers remain upbeat on the longer-term outlook of algorithmic stablecoins.
""It is still the earliest days of algorithmic stablecoins,"" Brian Gallagher, co-founder of Partisia Blockchain, said in a Telegram message. ""There will be many failures along the way to hold the peg, as they're mostly in the experimental phase. We have to accept the failures along the path.”
Possible contagion risks, however, pushed tether (USDT), the biggest stablecoin by market capitalization, to lose its peg with U.S. dollars in European morning hours today."
51,49,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/first-mover-asia-terras-planetary-collapse-is-taking-down-crypto-lending-altcoins-plummet/,"First Mover Asia: Terra’s Planetary Collapse Is Taking Down Crypto Lending, Altcoins Plummet","Data suggests that many traders are moving their assets from DeFi platforms; bitcoin rallies after falling below $26,000 in Thursday trading.",2022-05-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin struggles; altcoins fare worse.
Insights: Terra's implosion threatens crypto lending protocols.
Technician's take: BTC is oversold and could see a short-term relief bounce.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,127 +1%
Ether (ETH): $1,968 -5.1%
Bitcoin had a forgettable Thursday. As for altcoins, the less said, the better.
After hitting a new 16-month low earlier in the day, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at $29,100, up slightly over the past 24 hours. That was little comfort for investors who have watched it plunge with other digital assets the past few days, swept up with investor fears following the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin against its 1:1 dollar peg. Bitcoin was already reeling from wider concerns about high inflation and geopolitical turmoil.
Still, other cryptocurrencies fared far worse, a sign of the risk-off environment that has investors veering away quickly from any asset with a whiff of risk. Ether was trading at about $1,960, off about 5% after dipping under $1,800 earlier in the day, the first time since last July it had sunk below that level. In a sea of major crypto red, SOL, CRO, ADA and MATIC were each down roughly 10% at one point. SAND and ATOM were off 14.5% and 9%, respectively.
Meanwhile, Terra blockchain's LUNA token plunged below 2 cents on Thursday, prompting validators to briefly halted the network to implement a patch that would prevent new actors from staking on it. Just a month ago, LUNA had reached a high of $120. UST was recently trading at about 33 cents, down about 54%.
Equity markets did better, rallying late to finish slightly down from where they started the day. Still, rising prices loomed large as a report Thursday found that mortgage rates had climbed to 5.3%, their highest rate since 2009.
In an interview on Thursday with the public radio business show ""Marketplace,"" Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said that he couldn't guarantee a soft economic landing as the Fed increases interest rates to tame inflation. ""Whether we can execute a soft landing or not, it may actually depend on factors that we don’t control,"" Powell said.
""The higher-than-expected inflation figures in the U.S. have prompted investors to move towards selling risky assets, impacting cryptocurrencies in the process as well,"" Daniel Takieddine, CEO of Middle East and North Africa region of brokerage BDSwiss, wrote in an email. ""The move towards a rapid rise in interest rates could keep cryptocurrencies on a sliding trend for a longer period of time as investors move to safer assets.""
He added: ""This bearish trend is further exacerbated by the recent crash of the TerraUSD, which lost its peg to the USD by a large margin. Its fall in value has eroded investors' confidence in the crypto markets and in the stablecoin concept in particular.""
S&P 500: 3,930 -0.1%
DJIA: 31,730 -0.3%
Nasdaq: 11,370 -.06%
Gold: $1,820 -1.8%
Terra's implosion threatens crypto lending protocols
Crypto lending, the backbone of decentralized finance (DeFi), was built in the rubble of the COVID-19-induced crash of March 2020. The prevailing logic behind crypto lending is to provide a smoother off ramp than rapid-fire selling, which depresses prices.
But as the collapse of Terra’s LUNA and UST tokens has sent shock waves throughout the industry, accelerating the decline of the price of bitcoin, knocking tether off its peg and reiterating concerns from institutions and regulators about the viability of the asset class, crypto lending appears to be its next victim.
Data now suggests that there’s a cavalcade of people looking for an exit.
The total locked-in value for DeFi is at $150 billion, down from just under $240 billion at the start of the year and from $230 billion a month ago, according to Glassnode data.
Data would suggest that many traders are moving their crypto out of DeFi protocols and into stablecoins like USDC with plans to redeem them (stablecoins like USDC and USDT can be redeemed for U.S. dollars upon request).
The supply of USDC, used by institutions and U.S.-based traders because of its regulatory compliance, is now just below $48.5 billion, down from $53 billion at the beginning of March. A similar trend is being seen with Glassnode’s data on exchange net positions. Since mid-April, it has flipped to red, now accelerating with Glassnode reporting daily outflows in the $2 billion range.
At the same time, lending protocols like Compound are reporting large declines in stablecoin supply. Compound, for instance, reports an 11% decline in USDC supply. All the while, gas trackers show that in the last week gas fees from USDC are up 175%, while gas usage at lending protocol Aave is up 705% over the past week.
Lending protocol prices aren’t taking well to this dash for the exit. Across the board, the tokens of major lending protocols are down with aave falling 53% over the past week. Celsius has dropped 55.6% over the past week and compound has fallen 49% during that time.
Despite less USDC in circulation, there doesn’t seem to be a particular increase in demand for it. Given the coming bear market, trading tempo will likely decrease and planned investment into crypto infrastructure might slow. The case and point for this is the yield offered by Alameda Research’s syndicated loans powered by the Maple Finance protocol.
Alameda’s most recent USDC-denominated loan, which launched last week just as the Luna crisis emerged, is now offering only a 6.5% yield. When the project began last November, 8.5% was the available yield. Although there is less USDC available, Alameda is anticipating a slowdown and doesn’t have the same need for it.
The good news from this crisis is that many parts of the infrastructure surrounding crypto are continuing to hold. USDC and Binance’s BUSD, are still at $, and redemptions – even from tether which was briefly knocked off its peg – are being processed on request.
Bitcoin Holding Support Above $27K, Resistance at $35K-$40K
Bitcoin appears to be oversold on the charts, which typically precedes a short-term upswing in price.
The cryptocurrency declined toward $25,400 Thursday afternoon before quickly recovering back above the $27,000 support level.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is the most oversold since January, which preceded a 30% relief rally. This time, however, negative long-term momentum could cap upside moves around the $35,000 resistance level.
Further, BTC registered a countertrend reversal signal on the daily chart, according to DeMARK indicators. That means selling pressure could wane over the next few days as buyers return from the sidelines. Another daily close above $30,000 would confirm the countertrend signal, although there is a low chance of significant upside from here.
HKT/SGT(UTC): Australia Housing Industry Association new home sales (MoM/April)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT (2 a.m. UTC): Speech by Michele Bullock, assistant governor at the Reserve Bank of Australia
3 p.m. HKT/SGT (7 a.m. UTC): Speech by Luis De Guindos, vice-president of the European Central Bank
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
UST Meltdown Continues as Crypto Markets, Communities Suffer. Here’s Where Things Stand
Another 24 hours of painful losses in the crypto markets. ""First Mover"" discussed new details in the TerraUSD drama and markets analysis from Kevin Zhou of Galois Capital, Michael Gronager of Chainalysis and Martin Leinweber of MV Index Solutions.
Terra’s LUNA Has Dropped 99.7% in Under a Week. That’s Good for UST: LUNA tokens lost 96% in the past 24 hours alone, prompting more to be minted in a mechanism that helped lift the UST price.
Tether Loses $1 Peg, Bitcoin Drops to 2020 Levels of Near $24K: Weak sentiment around stablecoins may have contributed to USDT’s de-pegging Thursday morning.
Global Crypto Regulatory Body Is Coming Soon, Says Top Official: A joint body to coordinate efforts at regulating crypto at the global level could become a reality in the next year, according to Ashley Alder, chairman of the International Organization of Securities Commissions.
Terra Proposes Token Burn and Increase in Pool Size to Stop UST Dilution: Terra believes that decreasing the amount of UST in circulation, while increasing the amount of available LUNA, is the easiest way to return the UST to a peg.
Chainalysis Raises $170M at $8.6B Valuation: The crypto sleuthing firm says it tools monitor $1 trillion worth of transactions every month.
Do Kwon Is the Elizabeth Holmes of Crypto: If you promise investors something impossible, is it a crime?
Today's crypto explainer: What You Need to Know Before Buying Bitcoin at an ATM
Other voices: Panic in the crypto market has Janet Yellen's attention (CNN)
""Web 3 has stunned the world by forging a parallel system of finance of unprecedented flexibility and creativity in less than a decade. Cryptographic and economic primitives, or building blocks, such as public key cryptography, smart contracts, proof-of-work and proof-of-stake have led to a sophisticated and open ecosystem for expressing financial transactions. Yet, the economic value finance trades on is generated by humans and their relationships. Because Web 3 lacks primitives to represent such social identity, it has become fundamentally dependent on the very centralized Web 2 structures it aims to transcend, replicating their limitations."" (Glen Weyl, co-author of “Radical Markets"" for CoinDesk) ... ""The economy can only go so fast without overheating. A big problem now is that nobody is sure just how fast that is."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""As Russia’s grinding war pulverizes eastern Ukraine and eats away at the global economy, it is also creating unintended consequences for President Vladimir V. Putin, whose aggression is giving rise to a stronger, Western-aligned security architecture in Europe, the very thing the Russian leader had hoped to weaken."" (The New York Times)
UPDATE (May 13, 2022, 0:15 UTC): Adds comment by Jerome Powell in the prices summary."
52,340,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/12/derivatives-old-guard-fights-ftx-chief-over-plan-to-cut-out-middlemen/,Derivatives' Old Guard Fights FTX Chief Over Plan to Cut Out Middlemen,"FTX CEO Bankman-Fried testified at a House hearing, defending his CFTC proposal to directly clear customers’ margin-backed derivatives.",2022-05-12,"FTX chief Sam Bankman-Fried spent hours before U.S. lawmakers Thursday defending his effort to allow customers to directly clear margin-backed crypto derivatives. The existing derivatives industry and its allies argued he’s seeking a power that could stretch well beyond crypto.
Several members of the U.S. House Committee on Agriculture – which oversees the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) – expressed wide distrust of the cryptocurrency industry during a hearing, even raising the recent mayhem with terraUSD (UST). Bankman-Fried took heat from both Democrats and Republicans on the panel, with Chairman David Scott (D-Ga.) saying the FTX.US proposal to the CFTC “could be a serious threat.”
But representatives of the derivatives markets made it clear FTX is directly threatening their territory, arguing that cutting out intermediaries for derivatives trades wasn’t just an idea that was going to stop with digital assets. Terry Duffy, the chief executive officer of CME Group, the world’s leading derivatives exchange, aimed much of his criticism at the possibility FTX would expand beyond crypto, because its application would allow it to do so.
""The risk of this going into other markets is extremely detrimental,"" Duffy told lawmakers. ""This is a proposal that's fraught with danger.""
Bankman-Fried repeated several times that his company has no wider intent, for now.
""We do not have any plans to launch non-digital asset contracts any time soon through this model,"" he said. ""I'm not lying to you,” Bankman-Fried insisted at one point. “I really do mean this.""
He suggested FTX would be willing to accept some additional formal limits, though he didn’t agree to permanently locking his firm into only digital assets. He also pointed out that FTX is already approved by multiple overseas regulators to clear crypto transactions in methods similar to what they’re asking permission for in the U.S.
“The model that we'd be proposing for U.S. FTX derivatives is a more conservative model than what we operate overseas, and I think that it has provided a large number of helpful risk features and safeguards on the product,” Bankman-Fried said.
One lawmaker, Rep. Sean Maloney, (D-N.Y.), told Bankman-Fried that he’d come up with “a cool idea.”
“You sure got everybody stirred up,” he said of the derivatives industry representatives opposing the application. “They hate this idea, understandably, because of what it does to their business,” he said, adding that “it’s a hell of a disruption – let’s face it.”
On May 25, the CFTC, which is still weighing the company’s application, will host a roundtable to openly discuss the concept pushed by FTX, inviting industry representatives, academics and public-interest groups.
Sam Bankman-Fried is scheduled to speak at Consensus 2022 in June."
53,114,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/12/lunas-collapse-shows-defis-dire-need-for-technical-regulatory-controls/,"Luna's Collapse Shows DeFi's Dire Need for Technical, Regulatory Controls",Liquidity aggregators could help manage market participants get through Black Swan events.,2022-05-12,"A ""Black Swan"" event is unpredictable beyond what is normally expected of a situation, is obvious in hindsight and has potentially severe consequences. Examples include the subprime crisis and subsequent meltdown of the banking sector in 2008 and the market capitulation following the start of the global pandemic.
In the financial markets, or in any industry for that matter, Black Swan events are mostly known as negative. Still, history shows that these events are also a pivotal point of positive systemic change. I believe that the same process will apply to this event.
Ahmed Ismail is president and CEO of Fluid, a DeFi liquidity aggregator, and co-founder of HAYVN, a regulated over-the-counter desk in the Middle East.
The downfall of UST as an algorithmic stablecoin is a Black Swan event and should never have happened. It was a project worth over $18 billion – practically too big to fail. Stronger regulatory controls overseeing the project’s automated trading system could have mitigated the situation a long time ago.
See also: Nassim Taleb, Ex-Bitcoin Admirer, Publishes Paper Trashing It
Terra’s meltdown spread to bitcoin, causing its price to drop by $10,000 in a matter of hours. It has also caused widespread damage to our peers in the crypto industry, notably exchanges and small and large investors.
If automated decentralized finance (DeFi) trading systems are to grow to this size, there is a need for better regulation and stakeholder safeguards.
What has come to the fore this week are the risks associated with algorithmic stablecoins. The key message here is that computer code cannot replace asset-backed collateral.
An algorithmic stablecoin isn’t backed by assets; instead, it’s stabilized by computer code through an algorithm or algorithms designed to hold its peg. Many “algos” have failed before UST, but this historic collapse now proves that algorithmic stablecoins have loopholes in their architecture.
Unfortunately, this chink in the Terra network’s design has managed to bring what was a multibillion-dollar project close to zero within days. It also caused systemic risk across DeFi and the broader crypto industry.
The network’s builders, primarily Terraform Labs, tried to defend the UST/USD peg position by selling large amounts of BTC held in reserve.
A silver lining: It seems as though asset-backed stablecoins such as USDT, USDC and BUSD have weathered the storm and investor sentiment remains intact, although they haven’t been untouched. USDT, for instance, traded nearly 5% away from its USD peg on Thursday, showing how extreme volatility affects the price of stablecoins that are meant to be 100% asset backed.
This event has highlighted key lessons to be internalized by the DeFi industry: Algorithmic stablecoins do not work, or at least need much more research and development. Further, regulatory and technological controls must be enacted before another algo is allowed to get so big.
This isn’t the first Black Swan event, nor will it be the last. They will happen again in the future. The big question, though, is why was there systemic fallout that affected other assets in the market and how can that be mitigated?
See also: Unleashing Liquidity in DeFi Trading | Opinion
The answer boils down to liquidity, volatility and how markets react in the face of Black Swans. Crypto markets are illiquid and thinly traded. Liquidity is siloed, and crypto markets are extremely inefficient. They become especially vulnerable, and even the most stable cryptos such as BTC and ETH are fragile. All assets will falter when liquidity cannot flow.
So, crypto markets need liquidity aggregators. These systems could help investors manage the turbulent waters caused by Black Swan events – when volatile conditions occur, market participants need access to liquidity quickly and at the best possible price to maintain equilibriums.
As for regulatory controls, I am certain lawmakers will look at the implosion of one of the largest crypto assets ever and find ways to tame the industry.
That’s just our industry growing and learning."
54,350,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/cardanos-ada-jumps-40-to-lead-recovery-in-major-cryptos-sentiment-remains-in-extreme-fear/,"Cardano’s ADA Jumps 40% to Lead Recovery in Major Cryptos, Sentiment Remains in 'Extreme Fear'",Crypto market cap rose more than 13% in the past 24 hours even though inflation concerns persist.,2022-05-13,"Major cryptocurrencies rallied the past 24 hours, erasing some of Thursday’s slide and adding 13% to the overall market capitalization, though a gauge of market sentiment weakened from Thursday's level.
Cardano’s ADA jumped as much as 40%, leading gains among the biggest cryptocurrencies. BNB Chain’s BNB spiked 30%, Solana’s SOL added 25%, and XRP added 22% during the morning in Asia. The recovery came as bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), the two largest cryptos, added over 12% each. Most of the largest cryptocurrencies rose at least 25%, with the likes of ApeCoin (APE) climbing as much as 57%.
Traders may have deemed cryptocurrencies as oversold and purchased assets after a dramatic sell-off. For the week, total market cap is down about 30%, CoinGecko data shows.
“After serious oversold previous days, altcoins rose at a double-digit pace in the last 24 hours,” FxPro market analyst Alex Kuptsikevich said in an email. “This could be both the start of an extended buying wave and a trap for the bulls.
“The cryptocurrency fear and greed index was down 2 points to 10 by Friday and remains in 'extreme fear,' but it largely ignores the optimism of recent hours. Thus, the indicator’s current low levels might also attract 'buy when you are scared' buyers,” Kuptsikevich said.
Cryptocurrencies dropped steeply this week amid systemic risks from both within the market and outside. Concern about high inflation in the U.S. hit bitcoin prices, while terraUSD (UST) – a stablecoin designed to be pegged to the U.S. dollar – dropped to a low of 22 cents. Investors took risk off the table, causing bitcoin to briefly fall to almost $24,000 on Thursday.
Part of the recovery in the past 24 hours could have arisen from what's known as a short squeeze. That occurs when traders who had bet on prices falling have to buy assets to cover their pessimistic positions, known as shorts. In a short, traders borrow an asset to sell in the hope they will be able to buy it back at a lower price and profit on the difference when they return it to the lender. If prices rise, they stand to lose money, and buying to limit their losses adds to bullish momentum.
Futures data shows 64% of traders were short in the past 24 hours and took on $266 million in liquidations, which may have contributed to a price rise amid a possible short squeeze."
55,347,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/do-kwon-i-am-heartbroken-over-pain-caused-by-ust-collapse/,Do Kwon: ‘I Am Heartbroken’ Over Pain Caused by UST Collapse,The admission comes after the stunning demise of the Terra blockchain’s flagship project.,2022-05-13,"Terra creator Do Kwon said in a tweet thread he was “heartbroken” about his creations losing functionally all of their value this week.
Kwon, who founded Terraform Labs – creator of the luna (LUNA) governance token, terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and various other cryptocurrencies – said he spent the last several days calling various community members about the tokens’ losing all of their value. Luna, which was worth nearly $120 at the start of April, collapsed in dramatic fashion this week and traded around at less than 1 cent as of press time.
“I still believe that decentralized economies deserve decentralized money – but it is clear that $UST in its current form will not be that money,” he tweeted.
UST, a stablecoin whose value was supposed to remain pegged to the U.S. dollar, lost that peg earlier this week and never recovered.
Kwon pointed to his “revival” plan on Terra’s Agora governance forum for next steps. Posted earlier Friday, the plan envisions distributing ownership in the network across UST and LUNA holders; it acknowledges Terra’s stablecoin as it stands is irrecoverable.
Read more: Do Kwon’s Proposed Terra ‘Revival’ Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge
“While a decentralized economy does need decentralized money, UST has lost too much trust with its users to play the role,” Kwon said there. The blockchain underpinning LUNA and UST was shut down twice by validators over the past day.
Kwon said that he did not sell any of his LUNA or UST during the “incident.”
The situation was exacerbated earlier this week when Terraform Labs and the Luna Foundation Guard, an entity tasked with maintaining the value of UST, appear to have hyperinflated LUNA by printing several billion tokens and dramatically increasing the number of tokens in circulation, further speeding LUNA’s price collapse in a bid to save UST.
The token’s market capitalization fell from $28 billion at the start of May to just around $600 million at press time."
56,341,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/crypto-related-stocks-in-asia-see-volatile-trading-amid-bitcoin-recovery/,Crypto-Related Stocks in Asia See Volatile Trading Amid Bitcoin Recovery,Traditional market investors risked off publicly traded companies related to the crypto sector amid a drop in prices this week.,2022-05-13,"Bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and Terra’s LUNA weren’t the only major assets where investors faced losses this week as the broader crypto market lost as much as 16% of overall capitalization on Thursday alone.
Earlier this week, bitcoin fell amid inflation concerns and contagion risks from TerraUSD's (UST), a stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollar, freefall. Bitcoin fell to as low as $24,000 on Thursday morning before a slight recovery overnight.
This risk-off reaction caused stocks of crypto-related companies to tank. Japan’s Monex (8698) ended the day 10% below its open on Thursday, as did Hong Kong’s OKG Technology Holdings (1499), which runs blockchain explorer OKLink and provides custodial services for cryptocurrencies. Hong Kong-listed BC Technology Group (0863) was down 15% on Friday morning.
BC Technology Group, which runs several businesses, is the parent of crypto brokerage and lending company OSL. Monex owns crypto exchange Coincheck and trading platform TradeStation, among other businesses.
Monex and OKG saw some nominal recovery later on during the trading session, rising over 1% as bitcoin added 13.5% to regain the $30,000 price level.
Elsewhere, shares of Hong Kong’s Meitu (1357) gained 1.1% on Friday after a brief slide on Thursday. The software company purchased over $100 million in bitcoin and ether in 2021."
57,349,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/13/do-kwon-proposes-restart-of-terra-blockchain-as-ust-luna-plummet/,"Do Kwon’s Proposed Terra ‘Revival’ Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge",A “Revival Plan” submitted Friday by the Terraform Labs CEO would redistribute ownership of the network.,2022-05-13,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon, in a forum post submitted 30 minutes ago, proposed a “Terra Ecosystem Revival Plan.”
Kwon’s “Revival Plan” amounts to a restart of the entire Terra blockchain, with network ownership getting distributed entirely to UST and LUNA holders through 1 billion new tokens.
The plan comes as Terra’s terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which is supposed to be pegged to the price of $1, “death spiraled” below 15 cents this week – wiping out over $30 billion in value. UST’s sister token, LUNA, which propped up the stablecoin’s value, has fallen to below a penny (LUNA was worth above $80 just a week ago).
In Friday’s proposal, Kwon, who created the Terra blockchain with his Terraform Labs team, concedes that the Terra ecosystem has experienced total collapse.
“Even if the [UST] peg were to eventually restore after the last marginal buyers and sellers have capitulated, the holders of Luna have so severely been liquidated and diluted that we will lack the ecosystem to build back up from the ashes,” Kwon wrote.
He continued, “UST holders need to own a large share of the network, as the network’s debt holders they deserve to be compensated for the tokens they have been holding to the end.”
This is a developing story. Check back for updates."
58,343,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/coinbase-microstrategy-and-other-crypto-stocks-finally-see-some-relief-after-recent-losses/,"Coinbase, MicroStrategy and Other Crypto Stocks Finally See Some Relief After Recent Losses",Shares of many crypto-related stocks had been battered during the week.,2022-05-13,"Cryptocurrency-exposed equities were rallying strongly Friday after a rough downturn this week caused by falling crypto prices, weak earnings and stablecoin fears.
Coinbase Global (COIN) jumped almost 18%, MicroStrategy (MSTR) gained over 21% and Toronto-listed Galaxy Digital Holdings (GLXY) rose about 14%. Additional gainers included crypto-focused bank Silvergate Capital (SI), up 23%, and crypto broker Voyager Digital (VYGVF), up 24%.
Bitcoin mining stocks were also up significantly on Friday, led by CleanSpark (CLSK) and Hut 8 (HUT).
Gains in bitcoin (BTC), which was up 4% over the last 24 hours, and ether (ETH), up 5%, along with a broader tech stock rally were helping the cause as investors have recently fled high-growth tech stocks and riskier crypto assets. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index was rising over 3% Friday.
Coinbase got a much-needed boost after posting weaker-than-expected earnings on Tuesday that caused its stock to fall as much as 34% this week. Oppenheimer defended the company’s 10-Q risk disclosure that led to investor concerns in a note on Thursday, saying the filing and tweet from CEO Brian Armstrong are “grossly misunderstood and being taken out of context.” Analyst Owen Lau maintained an outperform rating and price target of $197.
Shares of MicroStrategy, which holds billions of dollars worth of bitcoin on its balance sheet, were down as much as 45% at one point this week. Despite bitcoin’s latest declines, CEO Michael Saylor tweeted on Tuesday that the company’s bitcoin-backed loans were not a cause for concern.
The collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) along with the LUNA ecosystem also sent broader crypto prices lower this week.
“The extent of the damage caused from the depegging of recent stablecoins, and collapse of LUNA is unknown and will likely continue to play out in the weeks to come, but we expect that recent events in the crypto market to be catalysts for regulation, particularly around stablecoins, which we think would be welcomed by investors,” Chris Allen, an equity research analyst at Compass Point, told clients in a note Friday.
Elsewhere, Robinhood (HOOD), which has a significant crypto trading business, rose over 26% on Friday after it was learned that FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried had taken a 7.6% stake in the online brokerage.
Read more: Investor Concerns About Galaxy Digital's LUNA Exposure Are Overblown, BTIG Says"
59,351,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/14/what-happened-to-the-35b-terra-reserve/,What Happened to the $3.5B Terra Reserve?,Blockchain analytics firm Elliptic follows the money to major exchanges Gemini and Binance.,2022-05-14,"Where’d that $3.5 billion go?
Unless you’ve been off the grid for the last couple weeks, you likely already know the $3.5 billion bitcoin (BTC) reserve that was amassed, in part, to defend and support the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which proved to be anything but. However, while it’s clear that untold billions in value and wealth were lost when those reserves proved inadequate to prevent a depegging, what no one knows is what happened to those reserves and where they are now.
Terra Labs CEO Do Kwon has said via Twitter that documentation regarding the use of the reserves during the depegging event would be forthcoming. Where the bitcoin is held and how it was used will be vital for investors seeking to recoup losses suffered through their exposure to UST, according to Tom Robinson, co-founder and chief scientist of Elliptic, a blockchain analytics firm.
While it’s uncertain when Terra will release that documentation, Robinson said his firm has been following the money: some 80,394 BTC, worth $3.5 billion when purchased by the Luna Foundation Guard, the non-profit organization set up to promote the growth of the Terra ecosystem, between January and May this year.
When the value of UST began to drop at the start of last week, LFG announced it would begin to dispose of its bitcoin reserves and purchase UST. On the morning of May 9, LFG announced that it would “Loan $750M worth of BTC to OTC trading firms to help protect the UST peg.” Terra creator Do Kwon later clarified that the bitcoin would be “used to trade.”
At around the same time, 22,189 BTC (worth ~$750 million at this time) was sent from a bitcoin address linked to LFG, to a new address, Elliptic pointed out in a blog post. Later that evening a further 30,000 BTC (worth ~$930 million at the time) was sent from other LFG wallets, to this same address.
Within hours, the entirety of this 52,189 BTC was moved to a single account at U.S. crypto exchange Gemini, via several bitcoin transactions, according to Elliptic.
The purpose of having a very large reserve of bitcoin was potentially to purchase UST to push the price back up toward $1, which is probably the reason it was sent to exchanges. However, it’s not possible using the blockchain alone to identify whether it was sold to support the UST price, Elliptic’s Robinson said.
This left 28,205 BTC in Terra’s reserves. At 1 a.m. UTC on May 10, those remaining reserves were moved in their entirety, in a single transaction, to an account at the cryptocurrency exchange Binance. Again, it is not possible to identify whether these assets were sold or subsequently moved to other wallets, Robinson said.
“All we can see is it going into these exchanges,” Robinson told CoinDesk. “We can’t really see how it’s been used. It might have been sold, it might be being stored on the exchanges, it might have been withdrawn again and might be an unhosted wallet.”
UPDATE (May 16, 21:20 UTC): Edits second paragraph for clarity."
60,57,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/14/justin-sun-talks-usdd-stablecoin-in-wake-of-lunaust-unravel/,Justin Sun Talks USDD Stablecoin in Wake of LUNA/UST Unravel,Subtitle not found,2022-05-14,"Justin Sun didn't anticipate Terra’s $19 billion UST stablecoin would unravel less than one week after his own algorithmic stablecoin, USDD, launched.
In late April, Sun announced the blockchain he founded, Tron, would be creating its own algorithmic stablecoin, USDD. The controversial project drew criticism for its likeness to the Terra stablecoin UST, which, until this past week, was the largest decentralized stablecoin by market capitalization.
In a Lehman Brothers-like moment for crypto markets, UST lost its peg to the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, catalyzing a painful death spiral that all but wiped out the $30 billion Terra ecosystem, including its once-white-hot LUNA token. A wave of extreme fear among traders led to steep declines across all cryptocurrencies, and the contagion appears to have briefly spread to other stablecoins, including Tether’s USDT and the Waves blockchain ecosystem's neutrino USD, or USDN.
But Sun is an optimist. “I still believe in algorithmic stablecoins,” he told CoinDesk in a Zoom interview, which was scheduled before any of the market turmoil surfaced.
According to its white paper, Sun’s stablecoin would maintain its peg by a minting/burn process that would convert one USDD to $1 worth of TRX, the native token of the Tron blockchain. Conversely, $1 worth of TRX could be burned to mint one USDD.
As of Saturday morning, the market cap of USDD reached $270 million, according to data from CoinMarketCap. That's a fraction of the market cap of UST prior to last week's collapse and for now represents little threat to the asset-backed stablecoins USDT ($77 billion) and USDC ($51 billion), nor to the now-leading decentralized-finance stablecoin, DAI ($6.4 billion).
Currently, the yields for staking Tron’s USDD are as high as 40%, about double the 20% yield offered by Terra’s Anchor Protocol.
Despite UST’s unraveling this past week, Sun is confident Tron’s USDD will ultimately prove successful.
The controversial crypto entrepreneur (and ambassador of Grenada to the World Trade Organization) spoke with CoinDesk about how USDD will differ from UST, the $10 billion Tron decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) treasury he’s planning to build, the crypto bear market and whether he’s in any way responsible for triggering the Terra meltdown (as some #cryptotwitterati have suggested).
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
How did you get the idea to launch this decentralized stablecoin? Many critics are calling it a copy of LUNA/UST.
First, I want to talk a little bit about algorithmic stablecoins. I think they are very important to our industry. Today’s stablecoins are very centralized. It’s all collateralized, which means they all need a bank, and real bank services. We call crypto a decentralized world, but today, stablecoins are the most centralized part. We wanted to design an algorithm to make sure stablecoins can basically stay decentralized.
I think the failure of LUNA was not because algorithmic stablecoins are not viable or are not doable. LUNA’s failure mainly depended on too much leverage. They grew to a dramatic market cap in a very short period of time.
When we designed USDD, we focused on the healthy growth of USDD. We want to keep our USDD market cap relatively small compared to TRX and total market cap. And also at the same time, smaller than the Tron DAO Reserve.
How do you plan on building up the $10 billion reserve fund?
We acquired BTC, USDT, USDC, TUSD and other stablecoins.
Is it kind of ironic that you have a bunch of centralized stablecoins in the treasury collateralizing this decentralized stablecoin?
We want two safety nets. The first is the algorithm. The stablecoin is primarily backed by the algorithm itself. It basically runs in a decentralized way. But you know, consider the current market volatility right now. ... That's why we need a decentralized reserve to try to use the money we have to stabilize the market.
Do you plan on buying a diversified basket of crypto assets like the Luna Foundation Guard's strategy? If so, what assets are you eyeing?
We haven't finalized the list but I think the main two we are buying right now are BTC and TRX. But we will consider other stablecoins and tokens in the future.
What’s the planned breakdown of the $10 billion treasury?
I think half will be in stablecoins. Mainly USDT and USDC, around $2 billion each. We also hold other stablecoins, like BUSD, DAI and TUSD – altogether around one $1 billion. The rest mainly is bitcoin [BTC] plus TRX.
Do you know the breakdown between bitcoin and TRX?
I think bitcoin occupies like 80% of that.
Looking at the USDD chart [Thursday morning], you definitely see some more volatility. Do you have any thoughts on what caused that particular volatility?
We consider 5% to be the range of a depeg, so until then we will run with the volatility. Recently, luna has caused a panic now not only on the algorithm stablecoin, but also in centralized stablecoins. So we have seen the tether price go up and down. Today I'm looking very closely at the market volatility and we have market makers and also liquidity providers to keep the price stable.
What's your plan in case USDD depegs, like what happened with UST?
I think the LUNA problem is still that they used too much leverage. That’s why when the market collapses, the money they have in their reserve is just not enough to recover. We all witnessed the market panic.
[The Luna Foundation Guard] needs at least $10 billion to rescue the market and prevent the depeg from happening. That’s why leverage is dangerous. When we use leverage, we need to always be aware of how much is in our reserve. But it’s not only how much money you have, it’s also about how quickly you can provide the liquidity.
So that’s why our reserve has different layers. We have stablecoins, which can be deployed immediately if anything bad happens, and then it can win time, and then we can gradually liquidate other assets if we need to. LUNA grew too fast, and they didn’t have time to build a good reserve fund to stabilize the market.
If you remember, when the attack happened, people withdrew the 3pools from Curve, and they started to build up the 4pool. But between these times, the market liquidity was very weak. That's why when we provide liquidity to the market, we need to be super careful about this kind of liquidity squeeze as well. I still believe in algorithmic stablecoins. If we handle it well, it certainly can provide a good decentralized alternative.
On the UST depeg, there have been rumors circulating about whether or not it was an intentional, coordinated attack on the peg. Some even mentioned you as one potential attacker, do you have any comment on that?
I think the LUNA situation was mainly caused by market panic rather than by an organized attack. But we did see a lot of people withdraw liquidity at a very sensitive time. I wish the LUNA team would prepare for [liquidity shifts] way more carefully.
If you want to manage algorithm stablecoin liquidity, I will basically advise you to make changes in a good, healthy market. I think the [U.S.] Federal Reserve had [its] meeting one day before LUNA moved their liquidity, right? Those times are super sensitive, you don't want to do anything to mess up the liquidity at that time. So I think there's lots of details, you need to pay attention if you are doing an algorithmic stablecoin.
Just to clarify, you don't think that this was an organized attack? And you yourself are not behind it?
[laughs] No, it was not me.
What do you think the Terra team did right, and what do you think they did badly, that you would not do?
At the end of the day, the Terra team opened the algorithm stablecoin era. This is the first time algorithmic stablecoins have grown past $10 billion in market cap. Also, they managed to get lots of very prestigious institutions and capital on board to build this product. Terra inspired a lot of the innovative [decentralized finance] products in the industry.
In terms of what they did wrong, first, they grew to a very large market cap in a super short period of time. If the market cap were less than $5 billion they wouldn’t have failed like this. It will be so much easier to recover the peg. That’s the first thing, I think they basically grew too quickly.
The second mistake, similar to the first, is because they grew in a very short period of time they had no time to consider all the different variables in these very complicated markets. First of all, the liquidity – like when you should move the liquidity pool, how much money you need to put in the pool, how to build the Luna Foundation Guard funds. There’s lots they need to plan beforehand, but because they grew in a very short period of time, I don’t think it was possible for them to consider everything.
The third thing, LUNA had a problem when they set the interest rate of Anchor [the decentralized money market protocol built on the Terra blockchain]. I think yesterday they had to cut it from 20% to 4%. They should have done that a long time ago. Once you grow to a certain market cap, it is time to cut the interest rate a little.
I also think we need to focus on real use cases rather than leverage. We need lots of people to use the stablecoin in their daily life, which also takes time.
With Tron, you are advertising a 30% risk-free yield, which is even higher than Anchor’s. I just heard you criticize Anchor’s unsustainable yield. Why are you setting an even higher yield?
It’s basically a marketing strategy, right? You get everybody involved to participate in the growth of the stablecoin. I think the yield should depend on the growth of the product.
When people first start their companies they spend a lot of time on promoting, marketing their brand. But after they have an established brand and a very loyal customer group, they will start to reconsider their branding strategy.
If you get involved as an early bird you can get more returns. I think this is totally reasonable. But after a year why keep the same strategy you’re doing when you are very small? I think this strategy needs to be dynamic rather than be a fixed yield.
Right, so the 30% can be an intro offer. When do you plan on cutting it?
First of all, the return should depend on the time someone contributes the liquidity in the first place. The problem with Anchor is people can pull money out of the pool immediately, which is also very dangerous. When market panic is happening, all the people are going to want their money at once.
For example, we can have a 10% yield for you if you want to pull money out anytime. If you can lock up for six months, you can get 15%, and if you want to lock money away for a year, you can get 20%. Basically, I think these kinds of yield structures should depend on time.
We still need to design a better structure on how to incentivize the community and how to incentivize the liquidity provider.
It sounds like what you just mentioned with these incentive structures is not an algorithmic stablecoin-specific problem. These issues surrounding incentivizes and tokenomics are problems with crypto projects in general.
Exactly.
Right now, there is a lot of hesitation around algorithmic stablecoins. A lot of people think that the mechanism is doomed to fail. They say, ‘We just don't believe in the concept.’ What would you say to those people?
I fully have confidence in stablecoins. When I first got to the industry, we had the Mt Gox hack, and a lot of people lost their life savings. Then lots of people didn’t believe in crypto exchanges anymore. At that time, I remember people saying, “I don’t trust any crypto exchange anymore. I will only use bitcoin in my wallet, and if I want to sell to anyone, I will go to localbitcoin.com.”
That’s why we need to be super cautious and view this kind of operation like a crypto exchange. It’s very hard. You need to be super cautious with client money and win client trust, and it’s very easy to fail. In the past 10 years of bitcoin’s history, numerous exchanges got hacked, and loads of them went bankrupt because of the hack. That’s why we need to do things super carefully.
The crypto industry is going to evolve and algorithmic stablecoins have got to be there, because I think this is a very important component of our ecosystem in the first place. We can’t blame the algorithm just because LUNA failed, just like we can’t blame the crypto exchange. I think we just need more sophisticated and well-planned structures. Thinking about things like leverage, growth and also having a dedicated team to carefully manage it.
So you don't think that there’s a fundamental flaw in the design of these stablecoins and you think Terra/LUNA failed due to more operational issues?
Yes. It can be prevented if you do things in a more careful way. For example, no bank in the world can survive if all their customers come to them on the same day and ask them to pay their money back. Every bank also needs very sophisticated management, right? That’s why I think this is more about managing well. We see lots of banks go bankrupt but some survive.
Also, we see these financial crises that happen, like in 2008. I think these kinds of death spirals are very common in the whole financial industry. It’s an expensive lesson. But we can’t just abandon the financial industry because of these kinds of crises.
What are your thoughts on if this will start a new crypto winter? What would it mean for the industry in the near term?
Right now, it's the lower-bound support because people are over-panicking, especially today. At one moment on Binance, there was a person that wanted to sell four Tether for one USDC. That’s how much people are panicking.
People are even giving up on USDT, which is a stablecoin. If you're talking about the mood of the market right now, it’s extreme fear. I saw this back in 2019. In market crash times, people start the tether FUD.
Do you have any thoughts on the price of bitcoin? Will it go under $20K?
If bitcoin can ever go down to $20K, I’m all in. That's the first thing. The second is, I think right now, at least in the near term, it's the bottom. We can't predict the future but I think definitely right now is a good time to buy."
61,346,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/14/satoshis-mission-luna-ust-and-where-crypto-went-wrong/,"Satoshi's Mission, LUNA, UST and Where Crypto Went Wrong","In 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto encoded a mission statement for the industry in Bitcoin's first block. Essentially, crypto should first do no harm.",2022-05-14,"""But they, our ancestors, became arrogant and stiff-necked, and they did not obey your commands. They refused to listen and failed to remember the miracles you performed among them. They became stiff-necked and in their rebellion appointed a leader in order to return to their slavery.” (Nehemiah 9:16-21)
Bitcoin’s genesis block is historic, not just because it contained the first 50 bitcoins, but because it had a message coded in the hash code: ""The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks.""
Nathan Thompson is the lead technical writer at Bybit.
This reference to the 2008 financial crisis from Bitcoin’s creator, the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, is often read as an indirect mission statement: The financial system could be redesigned, money could obey immutable laws written into code, and finance could flow unimpeded. Bitcoin would be decentralized, beyond reproach and beyond manipulation.
However, it seems that the crypto industry, rather than recreate a trustless and egalitarian digital economy, has been dogged by in-fighting. We have recreated a techno version of the Old System, where greed for yield led people into convoluted and dangerous profit-maximizing strategies.
That is, without the benefits of power.
The meltdown of TerraUSD (UST) – which was once the third-largest stablecoin by market capitalization, which was once famous for offering a 20% annual percentage yield on deposits in the Anchor protocol and which was once going to make a lot of people very rich – appears to be total. This time there are no taxpayer bailouts.
See also: Do Kwon's Proposed Terra 'Revival' Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge
Terra’s collapse, coupled with a consumer price index of 8.3%, has led to selling across the crypto markets. Bitcoin buckled and is now below $30,000, with alternative coins faring no better as investors either sold into BTC or exited into cash.
Due to its algorithmic design, UST has a price that moves in sync with the price of Terra’s native cryptocurrency LUNA. The bank run that disentangled UST’s peg to the U.S. dollar also collapsed LUNA’s price, which crashed over 99% in two days to less than a cent. Earlier this year, UST and LUNA had a combined market cap of $60 billion, and now it’s under $7 billion.
The fallout has just started. There are yield aggregators that use UST as collateral and God knows what other complex financial strategies built on top of UST that are now at risk. People have lost their life savings; there are tears and depression.
Do Kwon, the braggadocious CEO of Terraform Labs, last year made CoinDesk’s Top 10 Most Influential list. Like other brilliant tech entrepreneurs, he had the status of a cult hero – people thought UST was one of the most brilliantly designed financial products, because it was successful.
It’s still unfolding how or why UST collapsed. But Kwon made powerful enemies with a plan, unveiled earlier this year, to make UST one of the premier stablecoins in the world by draining liquidity from rival projects on the decentralized finance tool Curve Finance. He exacerbated things by throwing his weight around on Twitter.
Indeed, Kwon took a multimillion-dollar bet on the price of LUNA, said rival stablecoin DAI would “die by my hand” and called a critic a slur for someone with diminished mental capabilities for pointing out vulnerabilities in UST’s design.
It's not surprising, then, that blockchain analysts are already finding evidence that UST’s meltdown was caused in some part by sabotage. It seems an unknown actor dumped $84 million of UST exactly one minute after Terraform Labs had withdrawn capital to fund its new “4pool” on Curve. That helped cause UST to deviate from its peg, which started the avalanche of panic selling and liquidations.
Today, Kwon and his team are scrambling to find a solution. Many believe it is beyond saving, especially as traders will long and short UST the whole way back to dollar parity – if it ever gets there.
See also: UST’s Bitcoin Reserve Too Late in Coming to Save Dollar Peg
Kwon reminds me of another crypto folk hero, Daniele Sestagalli, the founder of Wonderland Money and a celebrated crypto developer. A series of liquidations plus revelations that his business partner was a convicted criminal led to a complete loss of faith in his projects. Sestagalli has yet to make a comeback.
The industry would do well to remember Satoshi’s founding message: Crypto is supposed to make things better. It’s supposed to offer people a way to save and grow their capital without having to trust third-party actors who have failed time and time again – like Do Kwon.
I’m not naive enough to think that the lessons learned from today will lead to a kumbaya situation where the proverbial lions lie down with the lambs. However, we are seeing strength from bitcoin and the faith that it and other quality assets will withstand this pressure and that as long as they do, Satoshi’s dream will live on."
62,62,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/15/the-collapse-of-terra-was-devastating-but-there-is-still-hope-for-crypto/,"The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto","When a prominent stablecoin and the token that backs it failed, the broader ecosystem certainly was dealt a blow, but ultimately it is surviving.",2022-05-15,"First, I want to highlight that a lot of regular, hardworking people lost money because of the crypto market crash over the last week or so. Some people lost all of their money. While money isn’t everything, losing a lot of it sure does feel like it. If you or someone you know lost money in the LUNA/UST crash, know that life is always worth living.
If you somehow don’t already know, terraUSD (UST), a cryptocurrency that is supposed to stay at $1 (aka a stablecoin), is no longer $1. When something is supposed to be $1 and it’s not, that’s usually not good. What’s more, the crypto token that backs UST, LUNA, also lost virtually all of its value. These losses have been widely reported on, and so in all likelihood, this is the umpteen-millionth piece about UST you’ve seen.
But it has to be done because readers will remember me gushing over the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) – the nonprofit aimed at promoting and stabilizing the Terra ecosystem (which issues UST and LUNA) – announcing it would buy $10 billion of bitcoin to back UST. In fairness to me, I was mostly excited that I was able to write about something that Hal Finney published to the famed Bitcoin Talk forum. But in fairness to … the truth, I was not not excited about the possibility of a bitcoin-backed stablecoin.
All said, I’m going to pack as much as I can into this column about Terra without being overwhelming or unoriginal.
Here goes …
– George Kaloudis
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
There are these things in crypto called stablecoins. Stablecoins are supposed to be $1. Usually. Sometimes they are 1 euro or 1 won, but usually not. Blame U.S. dollar hegemony. Stablecoins exist so that crypto-natives can get in and out of the dollar easily without needing a bank to approve deposits and withdrawals. Stablecoins facilitate most crypto trading volume and power the never-ending crypto carousel that is “DeFi” (decentralized finance). More importantly, stablecoins are used by citizens subject to totalitarian governments spurring on hyperinflation.
There are a few flavors of stablecoins out there, notably tether (USDT), USD coin (USDC), binance USD (BUSD) and dai (DAI). Also quite notably, we had terraUSD (UST). These are the five largest stablecoins and they represent roughly $160 billion of value. Three of these stablecoins (USDT, USDC, BUSD) are collateralized stablecoins issued by centralized entities. These entities own a treasury of dollars that back each coin so that each coin can be redeemed for $1 by the holder from the issuer.
DAI is different in that it is collateralized and backed by a diversified portfolio of crypto assets. Instead of being issued by a centralized entity, a decentralized autonomous organization (or “DAO”) called MakerDAO manages DAI. DAI is collateralized with crypto rather than dollars, but it is, and this is critical, overcollateralized.
UST is even more different. It’s not collateralized at all. It is an algorithmic stablecoin powered by the Terra protocol. Instead, it is backed by a crypto token called LUNA. I covered how this works in a previous newsletter writing:
This is pretty clever on the surface. It’s simple. If the demand for UST is high enough to increase its price to $1.01, the protocol prints some UST in exchange for getting rid of some LUNA. The problem is that it works perfectly until it doesn’t. And boy did it stop working last Monday …
That’s supposed to be $1, not 11 cents. The LUNA chart somehow looks worse.
OK, naturally, you’re thinking that the mechanism broke or something. It didn’t break. It worked as designed and you can see that if you look at the amount of LUNA that has been issued as the protocol tried to algorithmically bring UST back to $1 while LUNA’s price was also tanking.
That’s right. The total supply of LUNA went from about 725 million tokens on May 5 to about 7 trillion on May 13. Meanwhile, LUNA lost 99.9% of its value. This is what hyperinflation looks like.
As mentioned above, Terraform Labs (the company behind Terra) laid out a plan to buy $10 billion of bitcoin and other crypto assets through the LFG in order to act as a backstop in case something like this happened. The problem remained, though. UST wasn’t fully collateralized like the other stablecoins in the top 5. Before the collapse, UST’s market capitalization was $18 billion, way more than the nearly $4 billion the foundation had in reserve.
Our friends at crypto data provider Kaiko did a great job breaking down what exactly happened. The short of it is this: UST dipped below $1, and all attempts, both by the Terra protocol algorithm and by the lending out of LFG reserves to trading firms, couldn’t bring UST back to $1. Between UST and LUNA, over $40 billion of value was lost.
What exactly happened doesn’t really matter. What really matters is that when something bad happened, Terra couldn’t handle it. What really matters is that an undercollateralized, algorithmic stablecoin will fail no matter how long it succeeds.
The system failed. But if we’re honest, UST was a wild success up until the moment it wasn’t. History should serve as a lesson here, when we inevitably will see a successful UST copycat crop up in 2027 or whatever.
We also are incredibly lucky that UST and LUNA aren’t big or intertwined enough to cause mass hysteria across all markets. I honestly believe we were lucky this happened in 2022 and not in 2030. Bloomberg’s Matt Levine put it well:
Spot on. Even if you’re like me, a bitcoin maximalist praying for the day where we go back to just one cryptocurrency, you have to admit that we are going to see more crypto in more industries in the short to medium term. Except next time an undercollateralized, algorithmic stablecoin fails, it’s not going to be $40 billion of lost value. It might be $400 billion. That could be catastrophic. We should look to avoid that scenario at all costs.
On the bright side, somehow bitcoin didn’t completely collapse. Over 80,000 BTC from that almost $4 billion treasury was potentially sold (we can’t yet confirm if the bitcoin was actually sold, but it was sent to exchanges) during the mad dash to get UST back to $1. That caused a price reaction, sure, but then again, the broader crypto market sold off because bad things were happening to a big crypto project (LUNA was once the 10th most valuable cryptocurrency). Add on the tenuous macroeconomic environment and general risk-off sentiment in the market, and it feels almost impossible that bitcoin still boasts a market cap of over $500 billion.
I think we are numb to these large numbers given the unprecedented bull market of the last 13 years, and so this bears repeating. Bitcoin was a worthless, purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash created by an unknown person in 2009. No big company or government put marketing, research or legal dollars behind it, and yet it is now a serious macro asset that important politicians and financiers feel the need to comment on.
A serious macro asset that can take huge swathes of selling volume and still … not … go … away. Bitcoin is here to stay. So is crypto. As long as we learn from this, that can be a good thing.
But if history is any indication, we still need to ensure that overconfidence doesn’t get the best of “future us.”"
63,352,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/15/first-mover-asia-singapores-regulators-will-be-eyeing-local-crypto-companies-after-terra-collapse-bitcoin-rebounds/,First Mover Asia: Singapore’s Regulators Will Be Eyeing Local Crypto Companies After Terra Collapse; Bitcoin Rebounds,"Terraform Labs, the Singapore-registered company behind the Terra protocol, doesn’t have a permanent office in the city-state; most major cryptos spent Sunday in the green.",2022-05-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin mounts a small Sunday comeback.
Insights: Crypto companies may face more scrutiny in Singapore.
Technician's take: BTC is on track for its first consecutive seven-week decline.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,122 +3.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,139 +4.5%
Bitcoin rebounds
As comebacks go, it wasn't much. But Bitcoin will take what it can get at this point.
So will other cryptos hammered last week by the toxic mix of geopolitical unrest, rising interest rates, recessionary fears and the implosion of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the LUNA token that backs it.
Bitcoin was recently trading above $31,000, up about 3.5% over the past 24 hours and roughly 16% from the $26,600 depths it sank to mid-Friday. ""Bitcoin did indeed face downward pressure that saw it losing the $30K support, but it did not fall below the 25K level,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk.
Ether, the second largest crypto by market cap, was recently up similarly and changing hands at about $2,100 after earlier in the week dropping below $1,800 for the first time in two months. Most major altcoins spent Sunday well in the green, recovering some of the ground they lost last week as the crypto market cap tumbled by $300 billion. SOL rose more than 10% at one point, although its $55 price was down from over $70 at the start of the week.
ADA, AVAX and AXS posted increases ranging between 9% and 11%. BCH was among the few losers earlier Sunday.
Crypto gains dovetailed with equity markets that finally enjoyed some good news Friday after six straight days of declines. The tech-focused Nasdaq closed up 3.8%, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial average rose 2.3% and 1.4%, respectively. Still, the week's economic bad news is unlikely to shake investors from their risk-averse positions of recent months.
On Wednesday, the U.S. Commerce Department announced that consumer prices had risen 8.3% in April, slightly better than the previous month but nevertheless a sign that inflation driving a range of goods and services would linger. Even the once torrid housing market has felt shockwaves as mortgage rates have risen over 5.3%, increasing the difficulty for would-be homeowners to finance their purchases. Investors have been concerned that U.S. central bank hawkishness was inadequate to tame rising prices without throwing the economy into recession.
In an email Friday, Hargreaves Lansdown Senior Investment and Markets Analyst Susannah Streeter highlighted ""investor worries over inflation, supply concerns and the UST fall, which sent LUNA tumbling to a fraction of a cent. ""For now the crypto wild west is taking a breather after reeling from the crash brought on by the collapse of a so-called stablecoin,"" Streeter wrote, adding: ""This latest plunge in the wheel of fortune demonstrates that speculating in cryptocurrencies is extremely high risk and is not suitable for investors who don’t have money they can afford to lose.’’
BitBull's DiPasquale noted that ""a near-term bounce"" in Bitcoin ""is still intact but a proper reversal needs more buying activity."" He called last week's low ""a decent buying opportunity for long-term exposure,"" but also warned that ""the coming month may bring additional volatility as more concrete steps by the FED to fight inflation come to the fore.""
S&P 500: 4,023 +2.3%
DJIA: 32,196 +1.4%
Nasdaq: 11,805 +3.8%
Gold: $1,811 -0.5%
Singapore will be eyeing locally registered crypto firms
As the week closed in Asia, LUNA and UST were de-listed from most exchanges as the Terra blockchain was halted for nine hours, restarted and then halted again as the market seemed to reject a recovery plan.
The question on many people’s minds is, how will token holders be made whole? That’s where things get complicated.
Terraform Labs, the Singapore-registered company behind the Terra protocol, doesn’t have a permanent office. The Singapore address it provides is a registration agent, home to hundreds of Singaporean companies. Its offices are rented co-working spaces worldwide; like many Web 3 startups, there’s no formal headquarters.
The only assets the company has are from the Luna Foundation Guard. This non-profit organization, also registered in Singapore and overseen by Do Kwon, controls the wallets that were to support the UST peg during times of extreme volatility. The majority of these wallets are now empty, with the only thing of value remaining being the approximately $69 million in avalanche token (AVAX).
Singapore’s regulators are aware of the trend of crypto companies using a Singaporean entity to conduct business abroad with no material ties to the country. In April, its Parliament passed a bill into law that included provisions that require domestically registered crypto companies that do business abroad to be licensed primarily for anti-money laundering reasons, but leaves the door open in the future for this to expand.
As the year began, Terra’s LUNA token had a market cap of $33 billion. Its UST stablecoin had a market cap of $10 billion. Now, both have a virtual value of $0.
Should there be a legal case made against the companies behind the protocol by the token holders, what sort of assets could be seized? What jurisdiction does the Singapore government have over Do Kwon and co-founder Daniel Shin? On company filings with local authorities, both provide addresses in Singapore but it's unclear if they reside there full time, as Kwon maintains a residence in South Korea, too.
With its lawsuit against the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Terraform Labs and Do Kwon asserted that American regulators don’t have jurisdiction over Kwon, a Korean residing in Singapore. They have no ties to the U.S., so how can they be targeted by regulators? they argued. But they might find themselves dealing with Singapore’s justice system, and while the country has a favorable securities framework compared to the U.S. its courts are known to be otherwise strict.
Should the Singaporean government feel like the nation’s reputation is at stake because of a registered company with few material ties that blew up tens of billions of dollars, it will come after them hard and may start the process of closing the door entirely on crypto firms that use a Singaporean shell but do business abroad.
If that happens, will Terraform and Kwon also claim the “no jurisdiction” route?
Bitcoin Oversold, Resistance at $33K-$35K
Bitcoin (BTC) bounced toward $30,000 on Friday as buyers reacted to oversold conditions. Still, any upside appears to be limited, and the cryptocurrency could face resistance at $33,000 and $35,000.
Momentum signals remain negative on the daily, weekly and monthly charts, which typically leads to a period of low or negative returns. Further, BTC is on track for its first-ever consecutive seven-week decline, according to Coinbase (COIN) price data provided by TradingView, dating back to 2014. That's also a sign of negative price momentum.
For now, BTC is approaching lower support near its 200-week moving average, which is now at $21,800. Immediate support is between $27,000 and $30,000, which could stabilize price action over the next few days.
Also, on Thursday, short-term countertrend signals appeared on the charts, which typically leads to a brief price bounce.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the weekly chart is the most oversold since March 2020, although strong resistance and negative momentum suggests limited upside over the next few months.
Stronghold Digital first quarter earnings
Mawson first quarter earnings
Cosmos Gateway Conference
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Panic Eases, Bitcoin, Many Cryptos Seeing Green, Lessons Learned From UST Shock
""First Mover"" dove further into the UST stablecoin debacle and its punishing impact on crypto markets. BTC, other crypto prices were climbing but the outlook is uncertain. And what were the lessons learned? Joining host Christine Lee were Michael Coscetta of Paxos, which has a different kind of stablecoin than UST, and Benoit Bosc of GSR gave his markets analysis.
Do Kwon’s Proposed Terra ‘Revival’ Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge: A “Revival Plan” submitted Friday by the Terraform Labs CEO would redistribute ownership of the network.
Terra Validators Halt Blockchain for Second Time to Plot Next Steps: The blockchain was halted earlier Thursday after the governance token LUNA fell in price.
Coinbase, MicroStrategy and Other Crypto Stocks Finally See Some Relief After Recent Losses: Shares of many crypto-related stocks had been battered during the week.
Elon Musk Says He's Committed to Twitter Deal After Putting It on Hold: The landmark deal that would see Elon Musk take over Twitter and make it private has hit a stumbling block as Musk wants to verify the amount of fake accounts.
Crypto-Related Stocks in Asia See Volatile Trading Amid Bitcoin Recovery: Traditional market investors risked-off publicly traded companies related to the crypto sector amid a drop in prices this week.
Why the Fed Will Go Back to Easy Money: Amid a recession and political paralysis, the Federal Reserve will have no choice but to revert to quantitative easing. What will that mean for cryptos like bitcoin?
Today's crypto explainer: Bitcoin Mining Difficulty: Everything You Need to Know
Other voices: Why is crypto crashing? Analysts list the key reasons behind this week’s implosion (Fortune)
""It's a sobering moment for those of us in the crypto watching business. I’ve spent a great deal of time over the last two years trying to highlight absurdities in the bubbly crypto market (including predicting luna’s failure), but I still find myself somewhat shocked by just how exposed civilians became to one of the most experimental projects in the industry. And to be explicit, the crypto industry is still best thought of as entirely experimental."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""The downfall of UST as an algorithmic stablecoin is a Black Swan event and should never have happened. It was a project worth over $18 billion – practically too big to fail. Stronger regulatory controls overseeing the project’s automated trading system could have mitigated the situation a long time ago."" (Fluid CEO Ahmed Ismail, for CoinDesk) ... “It’s hard to say, ‘Is this Lehman Brothers?’ We’re going to need some more time to figure it out. You can’t respond at this type of speed.” (Paxos co-founder Charles Cascarilla, quoted in The New York Times) ... Saudi Aramco has posted its highest profits since its 2019 listing as oil and gas prices surge around the world....In a press release, the firm said it had been boosted by higher prices, as well as an increase in production. The invasion of Ukraine has seen oil and gas prices skyrocket. Russia is one of the world's biggest exporters but Western nations have pledged to cut their dependence on the country for energy. Oil prices were already rising before the Ukraine war as economies started to recover from the Covid pandemic and demand outstripped supply. Other energy firms including Shell, BP and TotalEnergies have also reported soaring profits as a result, although many are incurring costs exiting operations in Russia."" (BBC)
CLARIFICATION (May 15, 2022, 1:49 UTC): The Terra network was halted twice."
64,120,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/fantom-stablecoin-dei-becomes-latest-to-lose-dollar-peg/,Fantom Stablecoin DEI Becomes Latest to Lose Dollar Peg,DEI lost as much as 46 cents in European hours this morning. It follows a trend of several algorithmic stablecoins losing their pegs.,2022-05-16,"Deus Finance's stablecoin dei (DEI) lost its peg with U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 54 cents in European hours on Monday, data shows. The drop came amid several algorithmic stablecoins losing their peg last week.
Algorithmic stablecoins are supposed to be automatically pegged to the price of another currency. These are unlike centralized alternatives like tether (USDT) or USD coin (USDC), which are backed by actual dollars or equivalent assets stored in a bank.
DEI, valued at over $62 million by market capitalization, operates within Deus, a Fantom-based decentralized finance (DeFi) project. It comprises 10% DEUS tokens and 90% in other stablecoins.
The collateral ratio of DEI is constantly monitored and adjusted via arbitrage bots, which continually trade $1 worth of the underlying tokens for 1 DEI, or vice versa, to ensure a peg.
DEI – which traded 3 cents below its peg on Sunday – lost 20 cents on Sunday night as traders likely exchanged DEI tokens for USDC amid a small amount of liquidity on decentralized exchanges, which caused price fluctuations. Lower prices led to more traders selling DEI for other tokens, presumably to protect against risks, which further contributed to a price drop.
Separately, Deus developers had earlier paused a redemption mechanism for DEI – which allows investors to redeem DEI for other tokens – that may have contributed to the decline.
As such, developers on Deus’ Telegram channel explained the lower liquidity was partly due to traders exiting stablecoin pools after UST’s collapse last week and a lower-than-usual backing for DEI tokens after a $13.4 million exploit on the Deus protocol in late April.
Meanwhile, DEI has regained the 72 cents level at writing time, with Deus developers stating a repegging plan using debt tokens was in place that would prevent a collapse of the peg in the future.
The slump follows Terra ecosystem project UST costing its investors billions of dollars as it lost its peg and fell to as low as 22 cents. Associated token luna (LUNA) dropped to pennies from trading over $100 earlier this month, losing as much as 99.7% of its value in under a week.
Panic around UST last week led to a similar sell-off in other stablecoins, such as Waves’ stablecoin USDN which lost 15%."
65,344,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/bitcoin-sees-seven-straight-weeks-of-losses-for-the-first-time/,Bitcoin Sees 7 Straight Weeks of Losses for First Time,Fears of inflation and poor macroeconomic sentiment have caused bitcoin to fail as an inflation hedge in recent weeks.,2022-05-16,"Bitcoin (BTC) has had seven straight weeks of losses for the time first in its history amid a downturn in broader markets, stricter crypto regulations, waning retail interest and systemic risks in the crypto sector, data shows.
Bitcoin neared the $47,000 level in mid-March in a run that lasted a couple of weeks after a fall to $37,000 from November’s lifetime highs of nearly $69,000. The asset has since slid every week and could fall to as low as $20,000 if current market conditions continue.
Bitcoin, the world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, has been long positioned as a hedge against inflation, or an investment that is supposed to protect against the decreased purchasing power of currencies or other assets.
That has failed to happen so far, however, as bitcoin is highly correlated with global markets and has traded similar to a risky technology stocks in the past few months. Meanwhile, some analysts say investors are selling bitcoin as it advances.
""In our view, the trend of selling cryptocurrency on upside movements remains. Adding to the downside is the bleak outlook for U.S. monetary policy, where no light at the end of the tunnel with rate hikes can be seen yet,"" FxPro market analyst Alex Kuptsikevich wrote in an email.
""We expect the bears not to loosen their grip in the coming weeks. In our opinion, a turnaround in sentiment may not come until the approach of the 2018 highs area near $19,600,"" Kuptsikevich added.
Bitcoin fell to as low as $24,000 last week as stablecoin tether (USDT) briefly lost its peg to the U.S. dollar. Sentiment among investors was already reeling from the implosion of Terra’s LUNA and its stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
Inflation concerns have contributed to bitcoin’s fall in the past several weeks. Earlier this month, the U.S. Federal Reserve hiked rates by the largest amount since 2000 as it seeks to tighten monetary policy following $2 trillion in stimulus in the past few years.
In April, Goldman Sachs analysts said in a note that the Fed's aggressive measures to control inflation could result in a recession. The investment bank put the odds of an economic contraction – a phase of the business cycle in which the economy as a whole is in decline – at about 35% over the next two years.
Former Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein reiterated that sentiment over the weekend, stating the U.S. economy was at a “very, very high risk.” Such an environment could cause a drawdown in U.S. equities, which may spread to bitcoin and cause further sell-offs in the coming weeks if the current correlation continues.
The risks of a sell-off could already be starting to show. Last week, the $18.3 billion Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), the world's largest bitcoin fund, saw its market discount widen to an all-time low of 30.79%, as reported. The discount could be taken as a bearish indicator because it might mean a waning interest in bitcoin among traders. Grayscale and CoinDesk are both owned by Digital Currency Group.
GBTC is one of the only ways for traders in the U.S. to gain exposure to the price movements of bitcoin without the need to purchase the actual cryptocurrency.
Bitcoin was hovering under the pivotal support level of $30,000 at the time of this writing, CoinGecko data shows."
66,356,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/16/luna-foundation-guard-left-with-313-bitcoin-after-ust-crash/,LFG Reserves Dwindle to Just 313 Bitcoins From 80K After UST Crash,"The announcement comes after criticism of the Luna Foundation Guard's ""lack of transparency.""",2022-05-16,"The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), official stewards of Terra’s bitcoin (BTC) reserves, released a statement on Monday documenting how it disbursed millions of dollars' worth of crypto in its failed attempt to maintain the peg of stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
In the statement, LFG notes that it has almost entirely depleted its BTC reserves from around 80,000 bitcoins to 313. The remaining assets, which mostly comprise the crashed UST and LUNA tokens, will apparently be used to compensate investors.
In a subsequent tweet, LFG denied accusations that it bailed out whales with the bitcoin trove: “there was never any deal for ‘insiders’ to exit. LFG funds were merely used squarely within its mandate to help protect UST peg.”
In one of the most calamitous events in crypto memory, the $40 billion Terra ecosystem collapsed last week when the UST stablecoin, which is supposed to be worth $1, dropped to below 20 cents. The LUNA token, which is designed to serve as a sort of shock absorber for UST’s “algorithmic” dollar-pegging mechanism, crashed from $80 to below 2 cents.
In a tweet on Monday, LFG said it sold off most of the BTC in its reserves for UST as Terra’s ecosystem was beginning to collapse early last week.
LFG said it transferred more than 50,000 bitcoins “to trade with a counterparty” on May 8, as the UST price was originally starting to slump.
It said the funds were used for “directly executing on-chain swaps and transferring $BTC to a counterparty to enable them to enter trades with the Foundation in large size and on short notice.”
On May 12, LFG said another 30,000 BTC from its reserves were sold off by Terraform Labs, the original company behind Terra, “in a last ditch effort to defend the peg.”
That, however, failed to restore UST’s peg to the U.S. dollar as traders continued to sell the token for other stablecoins, leading to an exodus of capital away from UST and thus lower prices.
LFG confirmed the remainder of its reserves, which once totaled over $3 billion, have sunk almost completely as a result of the unsuccessful effort to defend UST.
LFG says these funds will be used “to compensate remaining users of UST, smallest holders first.”
Monday’s statement from LFG comes amid criticism that Terra’s reserve funds, which were supposed to belong to the “decentralized” Terra community, were handled with a lack of transparency by Terra’s centralized leaders and investors.
It also comes after leading figures in the blockchain sector, including Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin, have called for Terra to compensate smaller holders of UST and LUNA before its largest investors.
UST’s price plummeted further in response to Monday’s announcement – from 15 cents to 7 cents.
Meanwhile, only about $80 million worth of other cryptocurrencies – apart from UST and LUNA – remain in LFG’s reserves at current prices, a tiny figure compared with its $10 billion target reserve at the start of this month.
UPDATE (May 16, 13:29 UTC): Updates headline, adds additional details in eight and 14th paragraph.
UPDATE (May 16, 15:10 UTC): Adds third paragraph regarding insider allegations."
67,21,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/16/kwon-proposes-forking-terra-in-revival-plan-2/,"Kwon Proposes Forking Terra, Nixing UST Stablecoin in ‘Revival Plan 2’","“$UST peg failure is Terra’s DAO hack moment,” the Terraform Labs CEO wrote, “a chance to rise up anew from the ashes.”",2022-05-16,"Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon is out with a new “Revival Plan” to save the Terra ecosystem in the wake of last week’s stablecoin meltdown. His new slogan: “Terra is more than UST.”
Calling the $40 billion implosion “a chance to rise up anew from the ashes,” Kwon said that “the ecosystem and its community are worth preserving” as he pitched the second take revival plan as a “living document.”
In Monday’s post and an accompanying Twitter thread, Kwon proposed forking Terra into a new chain sans terraUSD (UST), the algorithmic stablecoin whose depegging crushed the entire ecosystem, the LUNA token included. Holders of LUNA on the “Classic” chain (the existing chain) would receive an airdrop of the new chain’s token under the plan. The old chain will continue to operate using the newly renamed luna classic (LUNC) token.
Kwon said the new chain will be “fully community owned,” and Terraform Labs – Kwon’s company and the creators of Terra – will not be eligible to receive funds in the initial token disbursement.
The plan will go into effect if it’s voted through by token holders. Kwon promised voting would begin on May 18. According to his proposed timeline, the new network launch could come as soon as May 27.
In what may have marked the largest token collapse in crypto history, Terra’s $40 billion stablecoin juggernaut crashed last week. Terra’s UST stablecoin, which is supposed to stay “pegged” to the price of the dollar, plummeted below 10 cents. LUNA, which UST’s “algorithm” uses to help prop up the stablecoin’s dollar peg, dropped from $80 to below 1 cent amid the turmoil.
In a tweet Monday, the Luna Foundation Guard, stewards of Terra’s vast bitcoin (BTC) reserves, explained that it sold off virtually all of its over-2 billion dollars worth of bitcoin in an ultimately failed attempt to defend UST’s peg. The announcement dashed any hope that Terra might be able to use the reserves to substantially compensate investors.
Monday’s announcement from Kwon followed an original “Revival Plan” he proposed last week. The earlier plan, while light on specifics, also proposed handing ownership of Terra over to its community.
Compared to the earlier plan, the newer one places a larger percentage of the forked chain’s initial token distribution (25% versus 10%) into a “Community Pool” responsible for funding future development. The new plan also gives 5% of the tokens to “essential developers” – a group not mentioned in the original proposal.
The vast majority of new LUNA tokens would go to those who lost billions of dollars from last week’s collapse. Following a vesting schedule, smaller holders would get their full allocations faster than whales, or large holders, who might have to wait up to five years. Terraform Labs would get nothing under the deal.
UPDATE (May 16, 18:25 UTC): Adds details throughout."
68,345,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/16/digital-euro-could-come-out-within-four-years-ecbs-panetta-says/,ECB’s Panetta: Digital Euro Could Come Out Within 4 Years,"Peer-to-peer payments could be a first test case, though no final decision has been made yet.",2022-05-16,"A digital euro could be issued by the European Union (EU) within four years, a senior official from the European Central Bank (ECB) said Monday, with peer-to-peer payments potentially among the first uses.
The timeline for the central bank digital currency (CBDC) has been pushed back and forward because of concerns over Russia’s war in Ukraine and the rise of private stablecoins like Facebook’s now-abandoned libra.
“The idea would be that, let’s say, four years from now, we will be ideally ready to issue the digital euro,” Fabio Panetta, a member of the European Central Bank’s executive board, said at an event at the National College of Ireland. “It’s a very complex project, never done before … I’m a bit optimistic that in four years’ time we will be prepared.”
Peer-to-peer (P2P) payments, allowing transactions among friends, could be the first testing ground for the new technology before it spreads to other areas like payments in stores or online, Panetta suggested.
“A P2P payment solution that covers a broad set of users across the entire euro area could provide fertile ground for the adoption of a digital euro,” he said, citing research that showed the application would have widest use early on.
Read more: ECB's Panetta Blasts Crypto as ‘Ponzi Scheme’ Fueled by Greed
In October, the ECB started a two-year investigation phase to look at issues like what use cases to prioritize, although the ECB hasn't decided yet on whether to issue a digital euro in the first place. Panetta has previously said that a realization phase due to start late next year could last three years.
In March, ECB President Christine Lagarde said the sanctions following the war in Ukraine offered a reason to speed up the plans, but other EU officials Monday suggested they were taking their foot off the gas pedal.
“There was some time back a sense of more urgency, because of the concerns of what might happen from private providers,” Mairead McGuinness, the EU’s financial-services commissioner, said at the same event. “Nobody is rushing … we need to move swiftly but not hastily.”
The idea of the EU issuing its own CBDC first emerged after an industry consortium led by Facebook proposed its own crypto currency, libra, subsequently renamed diem before being abandoned.
But recent collapses in the private crypto market may add yet one more reason to pursue the project, Panetta said.
Stablecoins don’t have the regulatory safety net offered to banks and “are therefore vulnerable to runs,” he said, citing the crash last week of terraUSD (UST), which is supported by the nonprofit Luna Foundation Guard.
“Just last week the world’s biggest stablecoin temporarily lost its peg to the dollar,” he added, referring to the Tether asset (USDT).
Read more: 9 Out of 10 Central Banks Exploring Digital Currency, BIS Says"
69,355,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/market-wrap-cryptos-mixed-as-volatility-fades-traders-expect-weak-recovery/,"Market Wrap: Cryptos Mixed as Volatility Fades, Traders Expect Weak Recovery","Bitcoin's average trading volume rose toward its highest level since January, which could point to a brief period of price stabilization.",2022-05-16,"Bitcoin (BTC) was roughly flat on Monday, while some alternative cryptos (altcoins) underperformed, indicating a lower appetite for risk among traders.
LUNA, Terra's governance token, declined by 18% over the past 24 hours, compared with a 6% drop in GALA and a 5% decline in AVAX and DOT over the same period. Typically, alts decline more than bitcoin in down markets because of their higher risk profile.
Still, the uptick in trading volume during last week's sell-off coupled with fading volatility could point to a brief upswing in crypto prices.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Technical indicators suggests a weak price recovery for bitcoin, which requires another weekly close above $30,000 to encourage buying activity. Still, the recovery could fade at around $33,000-$35,000 because of negative momentum signals on the charts.
Meanwhile, Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon released a “revival plan” to save the Terra network after last week’s meltdown. Kwon proposed forking Terra into a new chain without terraUSD (UST). The plan could go into effect if token holders approve it. Read more here.
During last week's UST de-peg, ""other major stablecoins such as USDC, BUSD and DAI experienced a 1% to 2% premium as investors moved toward assets they perceived were less at risk of contagion,"" Glassnode wrote in a blog post. That suggests, for now, that risks surrounding UST have been contained.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $29,727, −1.98%
●Ether (ETH): $2,017, −3.39%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,010, −0.36%
●Gold: $1,823 per troy ounce, +0.88%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.88%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin's average trading volume last week rose toward its highest level since January. That happened during a time of extreme bearish sentiment.
Trading volume declined over the past weekend, but remains elevated – almost twice as high the average volume levels recorded in April, according to Arcane Research.
Still, in the futures market, bitcoin's open interest, or the total number of derivatives contracts outstanding on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, continues to decline from its recent peak on March 28. That suggests the recent sell-off emanated from trading activity in the spot market rather than from leveraged traders in the futures market, although liquidations have accelerated the downward price moves.
Bitcoin's implied volatility also remains elevated following last week's sell-off. Further, intraday volatility reached its highest level since May of last year, according to Arcane Research.
""The key contributor to surging intraday volatility tends to be massive destabilizing effects in derivatives with leveraged positions unwinding, causing knock-off effects in all associated markets,"" Arcane wrote.
Typically, volatility spikes are short-lived, especially if price declines stabilize. Some traders remain cautious because of the weak recovery in crypto and equity prices following last week's sell-off.
QCP Capital, a Singapore-based crypto trading firm, stated that it intends to keep long volatility positions open in anticipation of choppy markets, according to a recent Telegram announcement. The firm is watching for news on the fallout from the Terra stablecoin debacle, which could be a source of additional volatility in the future.
Still, others are looking for opportunities to fade the spike in volatility. ""In the short term, spot prices have likely bottomed out while option volatility likely peaked,"" Greg Magadini, CEO of Genesis Volatility, wrote in a blog post on Sunday.
""Should prices find stability and bounce violently higher, fading the skew is a prime volatility trade,"" Magadini wrote, referring to the anticipated decline in the relative volatility of put options versus call options.
Morgan Stanley warns about NFTs: The bank said non-fungible tokens (NFTs) may be the next part of crypto requiring re-evaluation after DeFi (decentralized finance) tokens and stablecoins saw liquidations, “as it is becoming clearer that all the elevated prices were traded on speculation, with limited real user demand.” Read more here
UST reserves evaporates: Luna Foundation Guard, the nonprofit that was supposed to save Terra’s stablecoin UST in a crisis, broke its multiday silence and confirmed that its reserve that was once $3 billion mostly held in bitcoin has dwindled to $100 million. As UST fell into a death spiral, LFG said that it sold the reserve to restore UST’s peg and denied allegations that it bailed out insiders with it. Earlier, blockchain analytics firm Elliptic tracked the money to major exchanges Gemini and Binance. Read more here
Investors flee stablecoins: As the market tries to stomach crypto’s Lehman Brothers moment after UST’s implosion, most stablecoins saw heavy outflows as investors lost confidence. Tether (USDT) has lost $8 billion in market cap in May, and the supply of dai (DAI) dropped 20% and frax (FRAX) almost halved, according to CoinMarketCap data. Meanwhile, the Fantom blockchain’s algorithmic stablecoin, Deus Finance's dei, lost its peg during the day. Read more here
Listen 🎧: The CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast team is back to discuss what a recent bill on crypto mining might means for New York’s economy.
Crypto Funds Saw Year's Highest Inflows as Terra Crisis Crashed Markets: Some $274 million flowed into digital asset funds as investors bought the dip amid a broad crypto-market sell-off triggered by Terra's turmoil.
Portugal Makes U-Turn on Cryptocurrency Tax: Reversing its previous hands-off stance, the nation will impose taxes on the exchange and sale of cryptocurrencies.
German Regulator Calls for New DeFi Laws: BaFin's Birgit Rodolphe cites the potential for fraud and investor losses.
Japan’s Nomura Said to Launch Crypto Unit With DeFi and NFTs on Menu: The Japanese investment bank carried out its first cryptocurrency derivatives trades last week.
ECB’s Panetta: Digital Euro Could Come Out Within 4 Years: Peer-to-peer payments could be a first test case, though no final decision has been made yet on whether to have a digital euro.
Nigeria’s SEC Affirms All Digital Assets Are Securities in New Rulebook: Rules look to clarify crypto’s role in the economy by providing a regulatory framework.
Indian Central Bank Says Cryptos Could Lead to ‘Dollarization’ of Economy: RBI officials said cryptocurrencies could undermine the central bank's capacity to regulate the flow of money.
Celsius Network Files Draft S-1 Form to Take Its Mining Unit Public: The filing is expected to become effective after the SEC completes its review process, subject to market and other conditions.
US and EU Look to Blockchain to Track Greenhouse Gas Emissions: The U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council’s Climate and Clean Tech working group announced its aims in a joint document published Monday.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
70,354,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/crypto-funds-saw-years-highest-inflows-as-terra-crisis-crashed-markets/,Crypto Funds Saw Year's Highest Inflows as Terra Crisis Crashed Markets,"Some $274 million flowed into digital asset funds as investors bought the dip, amid a broad crypto-market sell-off triggered by Terra's turmoil.",2022-05-16,"Digital-asset funds last week netted their highest inflows since late 2021 as investors bought into market panic caused by Terra's implosion.
Crypto funds racked up $274 million in inflows in the week through May 13, when the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) – a cryptocurrency that's supposed to trade at a fixed price of $1 – dropped to a few cents, wiping out most of its $18 billion market capitalization and also making the blockchain's native token LUNA, once a top-10 cryptocurrency, virtually worthless.
James Butterfill, head of research at CoinShares, said it was a ""strong signal that investors saw the recent UST stablecoin depeg and its associated broad sell-off as a buying opportunity.""
Bitcoin-focused funds were the clear winners, netting $299 million in inflows, the highest weekly inflow since the last week of October 2021. The data suggests that ""investors were flocking to the relative safety of the largest digital asset,"" Butterfill said.
The flurry of investment came as bitcoin (BTC) dipped to as low as $25,892 on Thursday amid fears Luna Foundation Guard, the organization that was supposed to support UST in a crisis, might panic-sell its reserve of roughly 80,000 bitcoin. The price of bitcoin recovered most if its losses late last week to change hands around $30,000, a significant psychological level.
Investors were polarized geographically because funds listed in North American saw $312 million of inflows, while $32 million flowed out of European funds.
Purpose, the provider of the largest bitcoin exchange-traded fund listed in Canada, booked $284 million in inflows, dwarfing flows of competitors.
Non-bitcoin funds struggled in the market sell-off, as some $26.7 million flowed out of funds managing ether (ETH), while vehicles focused on solana (SOL) recorded $5 million of outflows.
Investors in blockchain-related stocks apparently panicked, with some $51 million leaving funds that manage blockchain and crypto-focused equities.
In contrast, multi-asset funds, which manage more than one cryptocurrency, recorded $8.6 million in inflows, suggesting that some investors preferred a diversified approach."
71,348,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/16/first-mover-americas-may-brings-showers-not-flowers-as-bitcoin-languishes-in-terra-aftermath/,First Mover Americas: May Brings Showers Not Flowers as Bitcoin Languishes in Terra Aftermath,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 16, 2022.",2022-05-16,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Brad Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off this week.)
Market Moves: May was supposed to be a strong market for bitcoin. Instead crypto markets have been pummeled by the Terra blockchain crisis and ever-tighter Federal Reserve monetary policies.
Feature: Where did all that bitcoin go? The Luna Foundation Guard behind the ""reserve"" for Terra's UST stablecoin provides an update, but skeptics abound.
The month of May is typically one of the strongest times of the year for bitcoin's performance, with an average 18% return over the past nine years.
But as crypto markets head into the back half of May, bitcoin is down 21% so far this month, currently around $30,000, and few analysts are predicting a quick rebound. CoinDesk's Shaurya Malwa reported Monday that bitcoin (BTC) has now fallen for a record seven straight weeks – a dismal stretch that's unparalleled in nearly a decade of pricing history on the largest cryptocurrency.
Aside from the epic collapse last week of the Terra blockchain's LUNA token and its UST stablecoin (more on that below), there appears to be little relief ahead from the direction of traditional markets. The Federal Reserve shows little inclination to ease back from tightening monetary policy aggressively to tamp down the hottest inflation in four decades.
Bitcoin has become increasingly correlated with U.S. technology stocks lately, so a hawkish Fed just puts more pressure on the cryptocurrency's price. (Economic data is expected this week on the state of U.S. manufacturing, retail sales and the housing market.)
""Adding to the downside is the bleak outlook for U.S. monetary policy, where no light at the end of the tunnel with rate hikes can be seen yet,"" FxPro market analyst Alex Kuptsikevich told Malwa in an email. ""We expect the bears not to loosen their grip in the coming weeks.""
U.S. stock futures were lower on Monday, along with European equity indexes.
Goldman Sachs Senior Chairman Lloyd Blankfein over the weekend offered an example of just how bearish the sentiment has become, stating the U.S. economy was at a “very, very high risk.” Such an environment could cause a drawdown in U.S. equities, which may spread to bitcoin and cause further sell-offs in the coming weeks if the current correlation continues.
""Multiple headwinds have given market players almost nowhere to hide in any asset class,"" David Duong, head of research for Coinbase Institutional, wrote in a note on Friday. ""The downside scenarios are certainly still in play.""
Duong says that from a price-chart perspective, bitcoin is in a “no-man’s land” with the next major technical support at the 200-week moving price average around the $22,000-23,000 area. ""If things were to deteriorate further, the next line of support would come at around $20,000, which was the all-time high in the previous 2017/2018 cycle,"" according to Duong.
The debacle that was last week's destruction of more than $40 billion of value from the Terra collapse has left crypto traders rattled. The Crypto Fear & Greed Index from the website Alternative.me is registering ""extreme fear."" BitMEX founder Arthur Hayes described the Terra episode as ""Luna Brothers Inc.,"" recalling the swift collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 that nearly brought down the global financial system. ""With the so-called death spiral now halted, investors will be keen to see if tokens can maintain their price levels for the next few days at least,"" Simon Peters, a market analyst for the crypto trading platform eToro, wrote Monday.
That said, there may be more signs of contagion from the Terra fallout. Deus Finance's stablecoin dei (DEI) lost its peg with U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 54 cents in European hours on Monday, data shows. And the Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley wrote in a report last week that high-flying non-fungible tokens (NFTs) might be due for a reevaluation, arguing that the most speculative and leveraged areas of crypto markets are now in focus.
To be sure, the biggest hope for the bulls might come from reports of continuing interest in cryptocurrencies from Wall Street and institutional investors. Elwood Technologies, the cryptocurrency company backed by billionaire fund manager Alan Howard, raised $70 million in a funding round co-led by Goldman Sachs and Dawn Capital, CoinDesk's Ian Allison reported Monday.
""Retail investors are no longer alone in seeing the value of the sector, and in the background long-term investor plans are still being built,"" Peters wrote.
Bitcoin Sees 7 Straight Weeks of Losses for First Time Fears of inflation and poor macroeconomic sentiment have caused bitcoin to fail as an inflation hedge in recent weeks.
Crypto Hedge Fund Elwood Closes $70M Funding Led by Goldman Sachs and Dawn Capital Dawn Capital co-led the Series A alongside CommerzVentures, Barclays, Galaxy Digital Ventures and BlockFi Ventures.
Australian Tax Office Warns Crypto Investors on Capital Gains Obligations The rate of capital gains tax on digital assets in Australia is determined by an investor's income tax rate.
Digital Euro Could Come Out Within 4 Years, ECB's Panetta Says Peer-to-peer payments among friends could be a first test case, though no final decision has been made yet.
Grayscale Investments to List Its First ETF in Europe The Grayscale Future of Finance exchange-traded fund will list on the London Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse and Borsa Italiana.
Indian Central Bank Says Cryptos Could Lead to ""Dollarization"" of Economy: Report RBI officials said cryptocurrencies could undermine the central bank's capacity to regulate flow of money.
Nigeria’s SEC Affirms All Digital Assets Are Securities in New Rule Book Rules look to clarify crypto’s role in the economy by providing a regulatory framework.
By Sam Kessler
The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), official stewards of Terra’s bitcoin reserves, released a statement on Monday documenting how it disbursed millions of dollars worth of crypto in its failed attempt to maintain the peg of stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
In the statement, LFG notes that its BTC reserves have depleted almost entirely – from around 80,000 BTC to about 300. The remaining assets, which are mostly comprised of the crashed UST and LUNA tokens, will apparently be used to compensate investors.
Monday’s statement from LFG comes amid criticism that Terra’s reserve funds – which were supposed to belong to the “decentralized” Terra community – were handled with a lack of transparency by Terra’s centralized leaders and investors.
It also comes after leading figures in the blockchain space, including Ethereum Founder Vitalik Buterin, have called for Terra to compensate smaller holders of UST and LUNA before its largest investors.
""There seems to be little hope for those hoping that some of the reserves could be used to compensate users of the stablecoin – since so little of it remains,"" Tom Robinson, chief scientist and co-founder at the blockchain analysis firm Elliptic, wrote in an email. ""Of course we will wait to see whether LFG can provide proof to back up their statements.""
Read More: Luna Foundation Guard Left With 313 Bitcoin After UST Crash
Today’s newsletter was edited by Brad Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
72,70,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/16/ust-wont-be-the-end-of-algorithmic-stablecoins/,UST Won't Be the End of Algorithmic Stablecoins,"The trail for a monetary ""Holy Grail"" continues, despite Terra’s collapse. So what do we do about it?",2022-05-16,"Is this the end of the algorithmic stablecoin?
Last week, UST, the digital asset that was supposed to represent the value of $1, exploded in a spectacular fashion. The stablecoin, which once had an $18 billion market cap, is now trading for less than 60 cents – well off its peg to the greenback. Terraform Labs, the organization that built the system, supposedly deployed about $3 billion worth of bitcoin, paused the blockchain, flooded the market with UST’s sister token LUNA and tried to pay out arbitrageurs taking advantage of the volatile situation in an effort to rescue its network.
Those expensive gambles failed, and even Do Kwon’s, UST’s principal architect, said the network as it once was can’t be salvaged. Terra is working on something of a repayment plan for “small” token holders.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
All of this raises two very important questions for the industry: Are all “algos,” or algorithmic stablecoins, dead on arrival? And should there be regulation in place to prevent a similar disaster?
At least one person thinks this isn’t the end for algos. Jonathan Wu, who’s the head of growth at the Aztec Network, a layer 2 network, told cryptocurrency podcaster Laura Shin just that.
“The algorithmic stablecoin is a holy grail. If you think about what an undercollateralized, algorithmic stablecoin is, it is printing money out of thin air. There will always be capital chasing that dream in my opinion,” Wu said on an “Unchained” podcast episode last week.
If one person thinks that, others likely do, too. And with somewhat understandable reasons. Wu painted with broad strokes: Stablecoins are necessary to smooth out crypto’s volatility, and if there’s a cheaper way to do that, people will attempt it.
There are essentially two stablecoin models: collateralized and uncollateralized. Collateralized stablecoins like USDC or tether maintain financial reserves like currencies or bonds in things like bank accounts to ensure that holders of these synthetic dollars can redeem them for actual money, at some point.
Algos forgo this failsafe and attempt to maintain their pegs through other financial means. UST used an on-chain redemption tool and a related token, LUNA, that was supposed to prop up UST’s value based on changing supply and demand. LUNA was burned or minted as UST rose or fell against the dollar.
The purpose was to create a “crypto-native” dollar – with all of the supposed benefits of blockchains, like censorship resistance – that would be cheaper to use than a fully or partially collateralized option.
Wu’s back-of-the-napkin math had it that UST users could print a synthetic dollar on Terra for about 20 cents. He compared that with dai, a blockchain-based stablecoin maintained by MakerDAO that holds overcollateralized crypto reserves, which costs $2 to use, Wu said.
See also: '$DAI Will Die' Tweet Twisted Back on Terra's Kwon as UST Loses $1 Peg
“Now if I'm a venture capitalist or any capital provider, I'm looking at this and I'm saying I can create a monetary system that's 10 times more capital efficient than the alternative. I'm willing to chase that dream over and over and over again,” Wu said.
Moreover, Wu said that “collectively, as an ecosystem, we've shown that we're willing to chase that dream over and over again and risk systemic toxicity in DeFi (decentralized finance) markets.”
Just think of the value creation.
But what of the value that’s been destroyed?
Before it imploded last week, UST substantially deviated from its peg only twice, including once in December 2020, when it fell to about 85 cents, and again in May 2021, when it dropped to 94 cents. In other words, Terra functioned more or less as promised until it didn’t.
Along the way, however, figures like University of Calgary professor Ryan Clements were sounding the alarm bell. In October’s Wake Forest University Law Review, Clements wrote a considered piece claiming that all algos are doomed.
These are assets that, like fiat, have value because a committed group of people say they do. The issue is, Terra’s user base is necessarily smaller than the U.S. economy, and although it had “lunatic” fans, the blockchain lacked an army.
Apart from the demand issue, Clements noted that Terra relied on “self-interested” investors who could profit from its algorithm as it began to fail. That problem, as we saw last week, is compounded by a “herd-like” sell pressure that accelerates a sell-off.
Other algos – like magic internet money (MIM), frax (FRAX) and neutrino usd (USDN) – are far from immune, Clements argued. Because they are backed by volatile assets and prone to herd behavior, algos “exist in a state of perpetual vulnerability,” he wrote.
Just today, Deus Finance's algo called dei (DEI) fell to as low as 54 cents during European trading hours, a drop that was in part precipitated by volatility across stablecoin trading. Kwon’s previous project Basis Cash similarly exploded, as did the algorithmic stablecoin IRON – which prompted investor Mark Cuban to call for stablecoin regulation.
“What is an algorithmic stablecoin? Is it stable? Do buyers understand what the risks are? It needs standards,” Cuban tweeted in September.
Cuban was mocked at the time for his hypocrisy and aversion to risk, but that – regulation – is certainly where all of this points. If it’s not possible for on-chain mechanisms to maintain their own price controls, then some other entity will come in to set standards.
CoinDesk’s own Nikhilesh De wrote about the need for proper oversight, and he is far from alone. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen commented last week on the UST crisis. The question remains, what will regulations look like?
Unfortunately, for the crypto industry, they won’t necessarily get to write their own rules – even if they can participate in the drafting process.
“I expect the regulation will look like more and more governance tokens being considered securities,” notable industry skeptic Bennett Tomlin told The Node in a private message. “[Governance tokens] have claims against assets, claims against cash flows often and are the easiest target for regulators.”
Unfortunately for regulators, anyone can create a crypto system – a process that means financial cops have been and will likely continue playing whack-a-mole with issuers. Although the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has begun to crack down on the industry, issuing broad warnings and doubling the size of its crypto enforcement wing – even with clear rules, there will still be some anarchists like Kwon willing to buck the system.
Nic Carter, a venture capitalist and CoinDesk columnist, doesn’t see official guidance as helping either, for similar reasons. But the industry, which was already highly skeptical of stablecoins, could enforce its own rules.
“I don’t think you can proactively regulate stuff like UST out of existence, any more than you can regulate plustoken or paycoin or onecoin or other similar schemes,” Carter told me. He added that UST was never “befitting of the word stablecoin” because its “true objective was to pump LUNA.”
“So the questions of ‘how do we regulate USDC’ and ‘what do we do about UST/Luna’ are totally distinct,” he said. “The latter is more about how do you stop large-scale financial fraud from happening.”
See also: Top US Lawmaker Proposes Sweeping Stablecoin Regulation
Rules are coming for stablecoins to make them look and function more like banks. Similar rules can be self-enforced in the crypto industry. Users could demand robust reserves even for algos, or something like “an orthodox currency board,” Carter said, referring to the monetary authorities that maintain exchange rates for foreign currencies.
Whether a system like that is possible and whether those authorities will use tokens that increasingly look like securities are open questions. But it does seem like one lesson for many investors is to choose collateralized stablecoins in the future.
How long that preference will remain or how long the memory of UST’s implosion can stay in mind is another can of worms.
As Wu said, algorithmic stablecoins are the “holy grail.” Or, as Tomlin put it, “The main reason I think people will keep trying is the appearance of free money.”"
73,353,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/first-mover-asia-metaverse-etfs-are-underperforming-gaming-etfs-cryptos-return-to-the-red/,First Mover Asia: Metaverse ETFs Are Underperforming Gaming ETFs; Cryptos Return to the Red,"Public interest continues to grow about the metaverse, but not as much in metaverse ETFs. Does crypto belong in everything?",2022-05-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and most other cryptos return to the red.
Insights: Metaverse ETFs are struggling to keep pace with gaming ETFs.
Technician's take: BTC's upside appears limited despite short-term support.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,982 -3.4%
Ether (ETH): $2,030 -4.7%
Bitcoin and other cryptos falter
That didn't last long.
A day after bitcoin broke a week-long losing streak, the largest cryptocurrency by market cap and other major cryptos were in the red again on Monday.
Bitcoin was recently down over 3% over the previous 24 hours and has fallen seven consecutive weeks. Still, it spent much of the day near or above the psychologically important $30,000 level. ""As far as the last 24 hours, we've seen a consolidation from six to eight weeks of sell-off,"" 3iQ Digital Asset's Head of Research Mark Connors told CoinDesk.
Bitcoin and other cryptos' performances dovetailed with equity markets, which dropped slightly on Monday and have been tumbling since last fall as inflation and supply chain issues continued to surge and investors became more risk averse. The tech-heavy Nasdaq dropped more than a percentage point on Monday.
Such growing cautiousness fanned last week by the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST), and the luna token that supports it, rocked altcoins particularly hard over the past week. On Monday, AXS and AVAX were recently down 12% and 8%, respectively. SOL declined more than 6%.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, fell over 4.6%, although it held fast above $2,000.
""In equities, you've taken almost a year of returns off so [there was] a rapid resetting as the Fed hiked [interest rates] in the first week of May,"" Connors said. ""You've seen digital assets, bitcoin, ether and the rest of the altcoins fall. What's happened is there's been a stabilization. What people are assessing is whether the interest rate hike has been taken out. In our opinion, it hasn't.
Trading volume rose from the lower levels to which it hewed for the first few months of the year, a sign of a potential, and at least temporary upswing. But few analysts are predicting a more permanent departure from the the current bear market. The coming weeks may be particularly hard on stablecoins even as Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon released a “revival plan” to save the Terra network. Kwon proposed forking Terra into a new chain without UST.
Connors said that investors would likely see three to nine months of ""choppy markets,"" and that prices would likely drop, possibly with support in the $20,000 to $24,000 range. In this environment, he sees investors focusing more on Bitcoin and Ethereum. ""Bitcoin dominance should and will happen when markets sell off,"" Connors said. ""People go to quality, but it seems that Ethereium is now building up as a number two quality asset in the ecosystem.""
S&P 500: 4,008 -0.3%
DJIA: 32,223 +0.08%
Nasdaq: 11,662 -1.2%
Gold: $1,824 +0.6%
Metaverse ETFs are struggling to keep pace with gaming ETFs
Sometimes a fancy new investment vehicle, most recently the metaverse, doesn’t perform as well on the market as last year’s model.
Metaverse exchange-traded funds (ETF) arrived last year shortly after the term entered our lexicon and became a favorite of venture capitalists. Because the metaverse is simply a mashup of gaming and crypto, these metaverse ETFs look a lot like gaming or eSports ETFs (the two terms are synonymous), which launched a few years ago.
They look like them because the metaverse is an ambiguous term; the shared online experience that is envisioned in Neil Stephenson's science fiction novel ""Snow Crash"" already exists on many multiplayer gaming platforms. Metaverse tokens don’t yet have listed proxies, so metaverse ETFs compensate for that by putting in publicly listed crypto companies like Galaxy (GLX.TO) or Block (SQ), the former Square. And that’s where the problem starts.
That association with crypto means that METV, a metaverse ETF from Roundhill, is significantly underperforming ESPO, a gaming/eSports ETF from VanEck.
Gaming tech heavyweights, like GPU designer Nvidia (NVDS) or game engine developer Unity, are in both baskets and haven’t performed well on-year but the inclusion of the likes of Galaxy Digital – down over 60% year-to-date and planning a stock buyback – really sinks the metaverse ETF.
Of course, this metaverse ETF is outperforming the metaverse tokens themselves: The Sandbox’s eponymous token (SAND) is down nearly 77% and Decentraland’s MANA is at 68%, mainly because both have struggled to attract a player base that reflects their valuation.
There’s an irony here. The metaverse, which is a way to sell crypto-plus-gaming as a rebranded product, is doing better on the market than plain vanilla gaming itself.
Maybe crypto doesn’t belong in everything?
Bitcoin Struggles at $27K-$30K Support Zone; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) is stabilizing around the $30,000 price level after last week's sell-off. The cryptocurrency must remain above the $27,000-$30,000 support zone this week in order to generate a positive short-term momentum signal.
BTC was down by as much as 3% over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, which could keep buyers active at support. The RSI is also oversold on the weekly chart, although negative momentum could cap upside moves in price.
Immediate resistance is seen at $33,000 and $35,000, which is where a breakdown in price occurred earlier this month. That suggests a large number of sell orders could limit a relief rally over the next two weeks.
Further, the recent underperformance of alternative cryptos (altcoins) relative to bitcoin suggests a lower appetite for risk among crypto traders. Typically, alts decline by more than bitcoin during down markets because of their higher risk profile. The broader risk-off environment could keep BTC's short-term downtrend intact.
Cosmos Gateway Conference
Permissionless DeFi Conference
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia minutes
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. retail sales (MoM/April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
OKX Exec on UST and Luna Crash, Bitcoin Outlook After 7 Straight Weeks of Losses
As investors continued to digest the disastrous fall of Terra's luna (LUNA) and stablecoin UST, OKX Director of Financial Markets Lennix Lai joined ""First Mover"" to explain how it handled the crash and to share his thoughts on what may happen in the industry and markets next. Plus, Charles Allen of BTCS Inc. provided market analysis and Chen Arad of Solidus Labs examined the crypto crash.
Kwon Proposes Forking Terra, Nixing UST Stablecoin in ‘Revival Plan 2’: “$UST peg failure is Terra’s DAO hack moment,” the Terraform Labs CEO wrote, “a chance to rise up anew from the ashes.”
The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto: When a prominent stablecoin and the token that backs it failed, the broader ecosystem certainly was dealt a blow, but ultimately it is surviving.
LFG Reserves Dwindle to Just 313 Bitcoins From 80K After UST Crash: The announcement comes after criticism of the Luna Foundation Guard's ""lack of transparency.""
Indian Central Bank Says Cryptos Could Lead to ""Dollarization"" of Economy: Report: RBI officials said cryptocurrencies could undermine the central bank's capacity to regulate flow of money.
Japan’s Nomura Said to Launch Crypto Unit With DeFi and NFTs on Menu: Report:The Japanese investment bank carried out its first cryptocurrency derivatives trades last week.
Nigeria’s SEC Affirms All Digital Assets Are Securities in New Rulebook: Rules look to clarify crypto’s role in the economy by providing a regulatory framework.
Satoshi's Mission, LUNA, UST and Where Crypto Went Wrong: In 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto encoded a mission statement for the industry in Bitcoin's first block. Essentially, crypto should first do no harm.
Today's crypto explainer: Bitcoin Mining Difficulty: Everything You Need to Know
Other voices: A Crypto Emperor’s Vision: No Pants, His Rules
""China’s economy descended deeper into a COVID-19-induced doldrums last month, raising questions about whether Beijing’s planned stimulus measures can prevent a prolonged downturn."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Terraform Labs, the organization that built the system, supposedly deployed about $3 billion worth of bitcoin, paused the blockchain, flooded the market with UST’s sister token LUNA and tried to pay out arbitrageurs taking advantage of the volatile situation in an effort to rescue its network. Those expensive gambles failed, and even Do Kwon, UST’s principal architect, said the network as it once was can’t be salvaged. Terra is working on something of a repayment plan for “small” token holders. All of this raises two very important questions for the industry: Are all “algos,” or algorithmic stablecoins, dead on arrival? And should there be regulation in place to prevent a similar disaster?"" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... Soaring valuations and booming [initial public offerings] made startups seem like a safe bet, inspiring hundreds of new venture funds. Now, the party seems to be suddenly ending – and downsizing may signal even worse times ahead. Since January, nearly 50 startups have made significant layoffs, according to data collected by Layoffs.fyi. Among them are companies like Robinhood [HOOD] and Peloton [PTON], which after huge growth during the pandemic now face the realities of a less buoyant economy, and less cash on hand. Startups like Cameo have had to reverse the spending sprees of the last two years."" (Wired)"
74,358,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/17/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-retakes-30k-as-institutional-adoption-makes-crypto-more-like-stonks/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Retakes $30K as 'Institutional Adoption' Makes Crypto More Like Stocks,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 17, 2022.",2022-05-17,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Brad Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off this week.)
Price point: Bitcoin retakes $30,000, but few analysts are ready to call a market bottom.
Market Moves: Everyone celebrated the arrival of institutional investors to the bitcoin market, as their rising adoption helped send prices soaring. Now, with correlations to traditional markets at an all-time high, fingers are pointing over the market swoon, Helene Braun reports.
Feature: Terra’s LUNA token gains and then slides, after blockchain founder Do Kwon proposes to create a separate chain or ""fork"" to make up for last week’s implosion of the UST stablecoin, Shaurya Malwa reports.
Bitcoin (BTC) was recently back above $30,000 after losing the crucial foothold on Monday.
With crypto markets still looking wobbly after last week's crisis on the Terra blockchain, any signs of stabilization should be heartily welcomed by bitcoin bulls. Arcane Research, a Norwegian cryptocurrency analysis firm, wrote Monday that the market could get a jolt of fresh energy if bitcoin ends the week over $32,000.
For the time being, though, ""there is little reason to argue that a prolonged rise will follow the current buying, as the fundamentals (tightening markets, slowing economy) remain in place,"" Alex Kuptsikevich, FxPro senior market analyst, wrote in emailed comments.
Ether (ETH) added 2.2% in the past 24 hours to trade above $2,000, with similar gains for Avalanche’s AVAX, BNB Chain’s BNB, and dogecoin.
Polygon’s MATIC (MATIC) gained 5.5% as Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt said the firm was working with Terra projects affected by last week’s implosion and would connect them to Polygon’s broader DeFi (decentralized finance) network. Terra held billions of dollars in value on various DeFi applications, such as Anchor, before last week’s fall.
In traditional markets, U.S. stock futures were higher ahead of Tuesday's exchange open in New York, along with gold. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note was up 0.04 percentage point to 2.92%. The U.S. dollar index (DXY) was down 0.8%.
The uplift in global markets came as traders priced in expectations of relaxation of rules in Shanghai after weeks of strict lockdowns, leading to a bump in Chinese stocks. Policymakers in Beijing are taking steps to alleviate the economic slowdown, with various moves in the past week.
Traders could get fresh clues on U.S. central bankers' latest plans to tamp down fast-rising inflation from a 2 p.m. ET (18:00 UTC) appearance by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell.
By Helene Braun
A key narrative in the crypto world in 2021 was the arrival of institutional investors to the market. Tesla (TSLA) bought $1.5 billion worth of bitcoin and Wall Street banks like JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS), as well as hedge funds, started to allocate clients' assets to bitcoin.
That was a sign of growing mainstream acceptance, and it appeared to drive up prices. Crypto boomed with the sector’s market capitalization growing 185% last year.
Now, as the crypto market's latest swoon wipes off $1.25 trillion from the industry's all-time high market capitalization reached late last year, the question is, what role is institutional money playing in the crash? Or to put it more bluntly, are institutional investors making things worse?
One thing we know: The crypto market is increasingly correlated to the stock market, and institutional investors appear to have heightened that correlation. And when the stock market goes down, it takes crypto with it.
“The influx of institutional interest in BTC, which started to pick up in early 2020 with public declarations of interest from stalwarts of traditional investing, such as Paul Tudor Jones and Renaissance Technologies, coincides with a sustained jump in the 60-day correlation between BTC and the S&P 500,” a report in April by Genesis Trading stated. (Genesis is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.)
Read More: Big-Money Investors Who Boosted Bitcoin’s Price Might Now Crash It
A16z Addresses Downturn in Inaugural State of Crypto Report The inaugural report discussed Web 3 trends and why Ethereum remains the dominant blockchain.
Citi Says Fallout From Terra Collapse Unlikely to Hit Wider Financial System Recent weakness in bitcoin and equities looks contemporaneous and doesn’t show any lag or lead effect, the bank’s analysts said.
Coinbase Pares Back Hiring Plans Amid Weak Earnings, Poor Market Condition The exchange previously planned to hire as many as 2,000 employees earlier this year.
Bitcoin Mining Appears to Have Survived Ban in China From September to January, China's contribution to the bitcoin mining network was second only to that of the U.S.
BitMEX Starts Spot Exchange on Eve of Co-Founder Hayes' Sentencing BitMEX co-founders Arthur Hayes will be sentenced for violation of the Bank Secrecy Act on Friday.
Terra’s LUNA Gains, Then Slides, After Do Kwon's Fork Proposal Traders sold the tokens even as founder Do Kwon proposed a separate chain to make up for last week’s implosion of UST.
Breaking Barriers to the Web 3 Creator Economy The latest innovations in blockchain technology are enabling creators to earn more from their work and achieve an unprecedented level of autonomy.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange At Japan's Liquid exchange, which was recently acquired by FTX, warnings were ignored, breaches unreported and employees berated and cursed at, insiders say.
By Shaurya Malwa
Terra’s LUNA shed nearly a quarter of its value in the past 24 hours after a proposed revival plan revealed by Kwon, the founder, data shows.
LUNA rose to as much as $0.00022 on Monday evening as plans to fork the current Terra blockchain went viral on social media. It then shed as much as 22% in early Asian hours to trade at just over $0.00017 at writing time. Some $2.1 billion worth of the tokens were traded in the past 24 hours alone.
The token is down more than 99% since its high in April of nearly $120. The drop came as excess LUNA was put into circulation last week to prevent the collapse of terraUSD (UST), a Terra ecosystem stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollars, as reported.
Sentiment remains mixed for the proposal among the crypto community.
Some said they would support the new chain and anticipated the airdrop to prior holders. Others suggested the plan was unfair, as it could vastly benefit investors who purchased massive amounts of LUNA at a few pennies more than those who purchased the tokens when they were valued above $100. To combat this, however, Kwon proposed holding two snapshots – one prior to UST’s collapse and one after – and airdropping equivalent amounts of new tokens.
Read More: Terra’s LUNA Gains, Then Slides, After Do Kwon's Fork Proposal
Today’s newsletter was edited by Brad Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher.
CORRECT (May 18, 3:55 UTC): Removes reference to Ben Delo in Latest Headlines section. An earlier version of this story said Delo would also be sentenced on Friday."
75,357,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/17/citi-says-fallout-from-terra-collapse-unlikely-to-hit-wider-financial-system/,Citi Says Fallout From Terra Collapse Unlikely to Hit Wider Financial System,"Recent weakness in bitcoin and equities looks contemporaneous and doesn’t show any lag or lead effect, the bank’s analysts said.",2022-05-17,"Cryptocurrency markets have been under pressure in the past week following the collapse of the third-largest stablecoin, terraUSD (UST), Citi (C) said in a note published May 13.
The fall in crypto markets took place against the backdrop of already weak risk assets, and Citi says it does not expect a broader economic fallout because the digital-asset market is still relatively small compared with traditional asset classes and the makeup of household wealth.
The analysts said they saw no apparent “lead effect” from bitcoin (BTC) to S&P 500 index futures. The recent weakness in bitcoin and equities appears “contemporaneous,” according to the report. Still, given the existing poor sentiment in equities, the fall in crypto markets doesn’t help, it said.
Bitcoin is expected to remain highly volatile, and is influenced by many factors including potential regulatory action, the report added, noting that the BTC price has declined close to “production cost and spot adoption model implied valuations.""
The bank sees production costs as a floor because below these levels it is “less economical for mining, which may lead to a decline in hash rates, and an adjustment in algorithm difficulty to keep the bitcoin mining reward rate constant.”
Citi says regulatory interest in stablecoins is likely to increase after the UST depegging.
Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a report Thursday that clients were asking whether the large drop in crypto prices and the depegging of stablecoins poses a “more systematic risk for broader financial markets.”
Read more: Morgan Stanley Says NFTs Next to Watch After UST Collapse"
76,22,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/17/terras-luna-gains-then-slides-after-do-kwons-fork-proposal/,"Terra’s LUNA Gains, Then Slides, After Do Kwon's Fork Proposal",Traders sold the tokens even as founder Do Kwon proposed a separate chain to make up for last week’s implosion of UST.,2022-05-17,"Terra’s LUNA token shed nearly a quarter of its value in the past 24 hours after a proposed revival plan revealed by founder Do Kwon, data shows.
LUNA rose to as much as $0.00022 on Monday evening as plans to fork the current Terra blockchain went viral on social media. LUNA then shed as much as 22% in early Asian hours to trade at just over $0.00017 at writing time. Some $2.1 billion worth of the tokens were traded in the past 24 hours alone.
The token is down more than 99% since April highs of nearly $120. The drop came as excess LUNA was put into circulation last week to prevent the collapse of terraUSD (UST), a Terra ecosystem stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollars, as reported.
Last night, Kwon proposed forking Terra to a new chain that would entirely cut out its failed UST product and instead focus on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications building on Terra.
The current chain would continue as Terra “Classic,” while holders of LUNA on the “Classic” chain would receive token airdrop on the new chain’s token under the plan. Although still a proposal, if a majority of network validators and the community were to approve the plan, the new network could be launched as soon as May 27, Kwon said.
Sentiment remains mixed for the proposal among the crypto community.
Some said they would support the new chain and anticipated the airdrop to prior holders. Others suggested the plan was unfair because it could vastly benefit investors who purchased massive amounts of LUNA at a few pennies more than those who purchased the tokens when they were valued above $100. To combat this, however, Kwon proposed holding two snapshots – one prior to UST’s collapse, and one after – and airdropping equivalent amounts of new tokens.
Plans to compensate relatively ""small"" holders of UST and LUNA affected in last week’s collapse were also underway, Kwon claimed.
Despite LUNA's and UST's crash last week, some market observers remain upbeat on the longer-term outlook of algorithmic stablecoins, which are typically backed by other cryptocurrencies and rely on traders who buy and sell the underlying tokens to continually maintain their peg.
""It is still the earliest days of algorithmic stablecoins,"" Brian Gallagher, co-founder of Partisia Blockchain, said in a Telegram message this weekend. ""There will be many failures along the way to hold the peg, as they're mostly in the experimental phase. We have to accept the failures along the path.”
However, critics likened protocols designed like UST to those of a Ponzi scheme. ""It sounds just like a crypto version of a pyramid scheme,"" billionaire and Pershing Square Capital founder Bill Ackman said in a tweet on Tuesday. ""Investors were promised 20% returns backed by a token whose value is driven only by demand from new investors in the token. There is no fundamental underlying business.""
""Schemes like [l]una threaten the entire crypto ecosystem. The crypto industry should self-regulate away other crypto projects with no underlying business models before crippling regulation shuts down the good and the bad,"" he added in a follow-up tweet."
77,78,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/17/first-mover-asia-usdc-hasnt-flippened-usdt-but-trader-preferences-are-changing-cryptos-rise-despite-bearishness/,"First Mover Asia: USDC Hasn’t ‘Flippened’ USDT, but Trader Preferences Are Changing; Cryptos Rise Despite Bearishness","A Glassnode analyst suggests the collapse of the UST token has triggered a change in investors' stablecoin preferences; bitcoin holds above $30,000.",2022-05-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos see green, but market sentiment remains bearish.
Insights: Investors change their stablecoin preferences.
Technician's take: BTC is on track to register a positive momentum signal on the daily chart.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,466 +1.6%
Ether (ETH): $2,092 +3.1%
Bitcoin and other major cryptos see green
Bitcoin and other major cryptos were largely in the green late Tuesday as the market continued to solidify, but the small surge seemed more a temporary reprieve than sea change in bearish sentiment that intensified last week during the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin implosion.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading over $30,400, a more than 1% gain over the past 24 hours. Ether was up about 3% during the same period, maintaining its most frequent, recent perch above $2,000. ALGO and MATIC each rose over 7%. SOL, CRO and ADA recovered from midday drops and were up about 4%.
""The crash of [Terra’s] UST stablecoin has heralded the end of a momentous bull run,"" Yield App CEO and founder Tim Frost wrote in an email. ""The market is 54% below"" its ""all-time high and won’t be climbing far any time soon as we face what looks set to be a painfully prolonged bear market.""
Cryptos traced equity markets, which rose amid encouraging U.S. retail spending and industrial production reports and cautiously optimistic remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. The tech-focused Nasdaq jumped 2.7%, while the the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 2% and 1.3%, respectively.
The U.S. Commerce Department said on Tuesday that retail sales had risen 0.9% in April, the fourth consecutive monthly increase and evidence that surging inflation has not completely damped consumers' appetites for goods and services. The report noted increased spending on electronics, cars and clothing, even as consumers spent less on gas, which has been a primary source of the recent months' cost run-ups. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said industrial production rose 1.1% in April, also its fourth straight monthly gain.
In remarks at The Wall Street Journal's Future of Everything Festival on Tuesday, Powell called “restoring price stability a nonnegotiable need."" ""It is something we have to do,"" he said, adding that he was hopeful the Fed could tame inflation without triggering huge increases in unemployment or a deep recession. ""It is a challenging task, made more challenging the last couple months because of global events,” Powell said. “It is challenging because unemployment is very low already and because inflation is very high.”
Yield App's Frost said the collapse of UST was ""nothing short of harrowing.""
""Any thorough due diligence assessment would have revealed that this asset could not withstand a bank run,"" he wrote. ""And withstand a bank run it truly did not.""
Still, he added optimistically that other protocols would learn from the ""UST disaster, lessons that will use the resulting bear market to develop the next generation of decentralized finance products. When we enter the next bull run, the fruits of their labor will be the world’s new financial system.""
S&P 500: 4,882 +2%
DJIA: 32,654 +1.3%
Nasdaq: 11,984 +2.7%
Gold: $1,814 -0.6%
Investors change their stablecoin preferences
LUNA and UST’s collapse is still reverberating through the broader crypto market. Bitcoin has fallen significantly in recent months and is now seemingly stuck around the $30,000 mark.
The most significant impact on the market isn’t an evisceration of crypto pricing from the start of the year, a trend that the collapse accelerated, but rather a brewing crisis of confidence in the stablecoin sector.
Data from Glassnode shows an inverse relationship between issuances of tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC) as well as Binance USD (BUSD). Tether tokens are exiting circulation via redemption (being exchanged for cash) while more USDC and BUSD are being issued because of demand.
“The redemptions of USDT were around $7.5 billion, whilst the supply of USDC grew by $2.64 billion and BUSD by $1 billion. So all in all we had around $3.64 billion in supply expansion, and $7.5 billion in contraction, meaning a net outflow of $3.76 billion,” James Check, an analyst at Glassnode, wrote to CoinDesk in an email.
DAI, another algorithmic stablecoin but structured differently than UST, also saw a decline in circulating supply by 24.4%, as $2.067 billion was burned.
“What we are potentially watching is a changing preference for which stablecoins the market prefers,” Check said.
Check suspects a large trader or traders used the momentum of the ""UST depeg"" narrative to lean on the USDT peg in the hopes it would generate downside fear, which he believes it did.
“We saw the distressed sale of the [Luna Foundation Guard’s] 80K BTC, and then a few days later, USDT pairs on some exchanges come under pressure, making for a perfect storm for a sophisticated short side trade,” he said.
But it’s important to note that despite all this, the USDT dollar peg quickly recovered. A large, rapid volume of redemptions happened in a short time, and the system kept functioning.
“As stablecoins become increasingly integrated as base layer infrastructure in the market, the shockwaves of a de-pegging event, especially in the largest stablecoin USDT will have widespread impacts,” Check wrote in a note published last week. “This event will also no doubt attract the regulatory spotlight at a greater pace and urgency.”
USDC has a long way to go before it ever has a change of ""flippening"" tether. But the data can’t be ignored: With a crisis of confidence brewing for stablecoins, it’s USDC (and BUSD) that the traders want, not tether.
Bitcoin Rises to $30K; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) continues to trade around $30,000, which is near the bottom of a year-long price range. The cryptocurrency appears to be stabilizing, although resistance at $33,000 and $35,000 could stall an upswing in price.
BTC was roughly flat over the past 24 hours and is down by 24% over the past 30 days. The recent sell-off extended bitcoin's short-term downtrend despite oversold conditions on the chart.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, reached on May 12 when BTC declined toward $25,300. Typically, oversold signals precede a price bounce, similar to what occurred in late January.
Further, on the daily chart, BTC on track to register a positive momentum signal, per the MACD indicator for the first time since late March. Still, momentum signals remain negative on the weekly and monthly charts, which suggests limited upside from here.
Permissionless DeFi Conference
G7 finance ministers meeting
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia wage price index (MoM/YoY/Q1)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Interest in Crypto, Blockchain Use Cases, UST Depegging, BTC and ETH Hover Above Support Levels
Ernst & Young Principal and Global Innovation Leader Paul Brody joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the state of crypto following the UST and luna crashes. Also, can blockchain help to address the global supply chain crisis? Plus, Andre Portilho of BTG Pactual provided crypto markets analysis and Ron Hammond of the Blockchain Association discussed crypto regulation.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange: At Japan's Liquid exchange, recently acquired by FTX, warnings were ignored, breaches unreported and employees berated and cursed at, insiders say.
Big-Money Investors Who Boosted Bitcoin’s Price Might Now Crash It: Everyone celebrated the arrival of institutional investors to the bitcoin market, as their rising adoption helped send prices soaring. Now, with correlations to traditional markets at an all-time high, fingers are pointing over the market swoon.
Terraform's Legal Team Quits Amid Terra Stablecoin Fallout: Marc Goldich, Lawrence Florio and Noah Axler left the Terra ecosystem backer in May, according to their LinkedIn profiles.
A16z Addresses Downturn in Inaugural State of Crypto Report: The report discussed Web 3 trends and why Ethereum remains the dominant blockchain.
Blockchain Investment Firm Fortis Digital Raising $100M Fund: The fund focuses on altcoins and requires potential investors to have a minimum $2.5 million net worth.
Meltem Demirors: 'If I Dress Like a Disco Ball, Let Me': She's a crypto OG. Stylish. Unapologetic. And a priestess of her own cult. Demirors is a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
Today's crypto explainer: What Can You Buy With Bitcoin?
Other voices: Cryptoverse: Stablecoins wend wobbly way into the unknown (Reuters)
“Web 3’s open access eliminates the power hierarchy, enabling creators to take control of their businesses. Spencer (Dinwiddie] noted that 'our ""New Money"" conversations taught us about the pressing urgency for creators to be able to monetize directly, without the interference of a third-party,' and that newly developed, decentralized platforms provide more efficient avenues for transactions between creators and fans.” (Calaxy COO and co-founder Solo Ceesay) ... “We have both the tools and the resolve to get inflation back down,” [Federal Reserve chief Jerome] Powell said during an appearance at The Wall Street Journal’s Future of Everything Festival, adding that the Fed is tightly focused on the task. The central bank is raising interest rates as part of its most aggressive effort in decades to curb upward price pressures. “We need to see inflation coming down in a convincing way,” Mr. Powell said. “Until we do, we’ll keep going.” (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Retail sales – a measure of spending at stores, online and in restaurants – rose a seasonally adjusted 0.9% last month compared with March, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. That marked the fourth straight month of higher retail spending."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
78,361,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/18/bitcoin-miner-argo-blockchain-emerged-unscathed-from-its-ust-stake/,Bitcoin Miner Argo Blockchain Emerged Unscathed From Its UST Stake,The company said it was able to sell its minimal UST stake for around 93 cents per token before the price completely collapsed.,2022-05-18,"Argo Blockchain (ARGO), the mining company that diversified into Web 3 through its Argo Lab subsidiary earlier this year, said on Wednesday it had a stake in UST that wasn’t material and was able to “nearly break-even” on its position during the UST meltdown.
“We weren’t super heavily invested in the Terra ecosystem,” said Argo’s CEO Peter Wall during the company’s first-quarter earnings conference call. “We did have some UST, we were participating in yield generation on the Anchor protocol,” he added.
Argo was one of the first publicly traded crypto mining companies to form a non-mining business unit called “Argo Labs.” The subsidiary was created in January with a goal of diversifying Argo’s business and taking advantage of other opportunities in the blockchain ecosystem. Currently, Argo Lab’s investments include Polkadot's DOT, ether (ETH) and Solana's SOL, according to the company’s first-quarter presentation.
Argo was able to sell its UST positions at 93 cents per token before the price fully collapsed, according to Wall. Most recently, UST was still trading around 10 cents according to CoinDesk’s price index. “Looking back [selling at that level] was a very good move given last time I checked it was trading around 12 cents,” Wall said during the call. “Overall, on a net basis, in the Terra ecosystem, we nearly broke even on our positions, after taking into consideration the yield that we generated through our holdings,” he added.
Last week, Terra’s LUNA token fell 99.7% in value as the U.S. dollar-pegged algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lost its peg and dropped to under 10 cents, causing an outflow in funds from the Terra ecosystem and declining sentiment for the project among the crypto community.
The collapse of the Terra ecosystem has taken a toll on numerous large-scale as well as retail investors. On social media and message boards, former LUNA backers have reported huge losses, despair and hopelessness.
Argo Blockchain reported its first-quarter earnings on Wednesday, in which its net income tumbled but revenue rose year over year, and it reiterated its hashrate guidance of 5.5 exahash per second (EH/s) by the end of 2022. The shares of the miner traded down about 4% in the U.S. on Wednesday, keeping pace with that of other publicly traded crypto miners.
Read more: Bitcoin Miner Argo Blockchain 'Leans Toward' Designing Custom Miners With Intel Chips"
79,366,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/18/biden-administration-wants-crypto-exchanges-to-separate-customer-and-corporate-funds/,Biden Administration Wants Crypto Exchanges to Separate Customer and Corporate Funds,"Federal officials saw Coinbase’s admission about customers’ vulnerability in a bankruptcy and will call for congressional action to segregate clients’ funds, source says.",2022-05-18,"U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration will press Congress to demand cryptocurrency exchanges keep their customers’ money separate from their own corporate funds, according to a person familiar with the plan that could constrain the way the industry does business.
Spurred by Coinbase’s (COIN) recent disclosure that customers’ money would be jammed up if the company declared bankruptcy, federal officials intend to push U.S. lawmakers to fix the problem by insisting that a future legal framework require crypto firms keep customer assets walled off. That type of custodial rule is standard for financial firms such as futures platforms, but crypto exchanges routinely mingle their funds with customers’ holdings in the same pot – a situation the administration wants to see ended by legislation. The securities industry commonly commingles funds, but the investments are also more heavily regulated.
Federal officials will push in the coming weeks to put the change into any crypto bill considered by Congress, the person said, building on a contention last year in the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets report on stablecoins: Companies that host crypto wallets need close federal oversight. The administration thinks the trading platforms should still permit pooling of customers’ assets, allowing the companies to keep managing trades internally rather than having to put each move on a blockchain.
Coinbase, a publicly traded company that is one of the industry’s largest exchanges, admitted in a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission last week that “in the event of a bankruptcy, the crypto assets we hold in custody on behalf of our customers could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings and such customers could be treated as our general unsecured creditors.” That’s the bottom rung of people paid back when a company fails, suggesting a misstep by Coinbase could indefinitely lock up clients’ tokens – or funnel them away to pay other creditors.
""Don't think you actually own your tokens when you go into a digital wallet,"" Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Gary Gensler said at a conference this week, underlining some of the federal government’s concerns about custody of investors’ assets. ""If the platform goes down, guess what, you just have a counterparty relationship with the platform. Get in line in bankruptcy courts.""
When a firm takes a customer’s tokens, they can use them as they will, Gensler pointed out. In fact, the exchanges are “often trading against you,” he said. And since customers lost billions in the wreckage of Luna’s algorithmic stablecoin, terraUSD (UST), his investor-protection advocacy could gain momentum.
“Congressional Democrats will follow his lead and escalate their calls for greater oversight,” predicted Jaret Seiberg, a Washington-based analyst at Cowen Group, Inc., in a research note this week. “The troubles with TerraUSD and the drop in crypto valuations will make it politically more challenging for Republicans to effectively oppose Gensler's policy agenda.”
For its part, Coinbase – staggered by a loss of more than 80% in its share price since last year – assured its nervous customers and investors that the distressing splash of its SEC filing wasn’t meant to signal anything about its prospects. Founder and CEO Brian Armstrong said that the disclosures were merely responding to a new SEC requirement, and his company isn’t in danger of filing for bankruptcy protection.
For now, crypto’s leading platforms – also including names such as Binance.US, FTX and Kraken – don’t need to strain themselves to meet the administration’s push for a custody rule. A closely divided and essentially immobile Congress isn’t likely to produce legislation this year, especially as lawmakers gear up for the bloody arena of the midterm elections in November. The most optimistic guesses see a crypto bill getting traction when the dust settles on the new Congress next year.
But not everybody sees fencing off customers’ money as the best answer.
“Instead of focusing on the lack of client asset segregation at digital asset exchanges, which is also true with securities held in ‘street name’ at DTCC, legislators should work on a Digital Asset Investor Protection Act that mirrors the Securities Investor Protection Act,” said Dave Weisberger, co-founder and CEO of CoinRoutes, Inc. It could give investors “primary status in bankruptcy proceedings,” and it could also set up a backstop fund to cover losses like the one securities investors have.
For others, a law banning firms from blending customers’ assets with their own would still represent a bare minimum for those calling for rigorous investor safeguards.
""There is a lot more that has to be done,"" said Patrick McCarty, a financial consultant and former regulator who teaches crypto classes at Georgetown Law. He said segregated accounts would be ""a significant step forward"" but argued strict regulations and a deeper overhaul of the business model are needed to return to crypto's founding ideas about recording every transaction on an indelible public ledger.
""Why would one advocate for a band aid – albeit significant – when it looks like major surgery is needed to protect investors?"" McCarty said."
80,74,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/18/what-to-watch-for-in-tethers-upcoming-attestation-report/,What to Watch for in Tether's Upcoming Attestation Report,"The leading stablecoin project still hasn’t published its March report attesting to its reserves. Following Terra, investors have a right to more timely information, says our columnist.",2022-05-18,"With the crypto bull market turning into a rout, speculators and investors have been cashing out of stablecoins in droves. Into this chaos, the world’s largest stablecoin issuer – Tether – is about to publish its most important reserve, or attestation, report ever. Here’s why Tether’s upcoming attestation is key and what investors are looking for.
It’s been a difficult few months for stablecoins. According to data from Coin Metrics available at The Block, the total value of the stablecoin market has fallen from $182 billion in April to $154 billion today, a quick 15% reduction.
J.P. Koning, a CoinDesk columnist, worked as an equity researcher at a Canadian brokerage firm and a financial writer at a large Canadian bank. He runs the popular Moneyness blog.
Most stablecoins have hewed tightly to their peg through the Great Stablecoin Pullback of 2022, including second- and third-ranked USD coin (USDC) and BinanceUSD (BUSD), both U.S.-domiciled. The decline in the values of these stablecoins comes purely from a fall in quantity as people convert stablecoins into actual U.S. dollars. The pegs of large decentralized collateralized stablecoins like DAI and MIM have also held, as people redeem them for underlying collateral like ethereum (ETH) and USDC.
Read More: Tether Cut Commercial Paper Reserve by 17% in Q1, Accountants Say
This shrinking in the quantity of stablecoins is a healthy market reaction. Given that crypto activity has petered off over the last months, fewer stablecoins are needed to grease the rails of the crypto economy. It’s the task of stablecoin issuers to hoover up unwanted stablecoins in order to contract their supply and keep their price locked at $1.
Alas, other stablecoin pegs have completely broken down, most famously terraUSD (UST), an undercollateralized “algorithmic” stablecoin that, at the time of writing, is trading at 9 cents. Several other uncollateralized stablecoins, including neutrino USD (USDN) and Deus Finance's DEI, have also experienced large deviations from their peg. Kava Network’s USDX recently fell to 80 cents, reportedly due to its exposure to terraUSD backing.
Then there’s tether (USDT), the world's largest stablecoin. The price of tether on large exchanges like Coinbase (COIN), Binance, Uniswap and FTX temporarily plunged to 95 cents on March 12. It has since risen back towards $1.
But the price of tether has not quite clawed back to the exact same $1 watermark to which it adhered prior to March 12. It is trading at just under $1 on major centralized exchanges like FTX and Coinbase. On the decentralized stablecoin market Curve, $100,000 USDT can only be converted into $99,851 USDC, a small but notable discount. Also worrisome is the continued unbalancing of Curve’s 3pool, a major source of stablecoin liquidity, with tether now making up for 74% of value locked-in.
All this suggests that there's still too many tether stablecoins in the market, and that the only remedy is additional supply contractions.
Read more: What Happened to the $3.5B Terra Reserve?
Tether has already shrunk dramatically over the last week. After hitting a peak of 83.2 billion USDT in circulation just last week, redemptions have reduced this amount by 11% to 74.2 billion. To repeat, there is nothing unhealthy per se about a supply contraction. The demand for tethers is lower and supply must be reduced to adjust to this demand.
However, more redemptions will be necessary to return tether to its tight $1 peg across all trading venues. Add to this the possibility that the prices of bitcoin, ethereum and other coins may fall further, inducing additional contractions in stablecoins supply, and tether could have another few billion in shrinkage ahead of it.
Is that something tether can handle?
Unfortunately, the Great Stablecoin Pullback of 2022 comes at an inopportune time for tether users. Thanks to issuer Tether’s policy of only publishing reserve reports every 90 days, they face a shortage of timely information about the assets used to back USDT.
When a stablecoin issuer issues stablecoins into the market, it normally keeps a corresponding asset in reserve to secure, or back, the stablecoin’s peg. As redemptions requests arrive, these reserves get used up. Because a stablecoin’s reserves are key to guaranteeing stability, the big, centralized stablecoin issuers have adopted the practice of providing information about their assets. In regularly published attestation reports, an independent auditor is asked to offer assurance about the quantity and composition of reserves backing the stablecoin.
The people behind USDC and BinanceUSD publish monthly attestations. Alas, Tether has the slowest attestation schedule of the bunch, reporting on a quarterly basis. With Tether's March 31 attestation report still not published, investors find themselves having to fall back on Tether's Dec. 31, 2021, report. But that was an eon ago in cryptocurrency time.
There was plenty to like from Tether’s old report. As of Dec. 31, 44% of Tether's $79 billion in assets were held in safe U.S. government-issued Treasury bills. This constitutes a big improvement from previous quarters. For instance, when Tether first began to report its asset composition to the public in early 2021, only 2% of its assets had been placed in Treasury bills while a hefty 50% had been allocated to riskier commercial paper, the rating of this paper not being reported.
The amount of commercial paper Tether holds had been steadily reduced over time, reaching 31% on Dec. 31. And thanks to improved disclosure by Tether, we now know the rating of this paper: most was A-1 or A-2, which qualifies as investment grade.
Another $4.2 billion, or 5%, was invested in safe cash and bank deposits as of Dec. 31.
This combination of safe investments – cash, investment grade commercial paper and Treasury bills – will have been great fodder for meeting the first $9 billion or so in Tether redemptions. It will be invaluable for subsequent waves of redemptions requests, too.
These improvements are the result of an awkward and confrontational dance between Tether executives and so-called “Tether truthers.” To counter critics, the company has been forced to cough up ever more internal data, which has fueled better criticism, which pushed Tether to make follow-up changes like shifting into safer assets like Treasury bills. Tether now has a serviceable front-line defense against redemptions – thanks in no small part to its critics.
But there were problems with Tether’s Dec. 31 attestation, too. The most concerning part was the $5 billion in ""other investments,"" which comprised 7% of Tether’s total assets.
What exactly are these investments? Did their value suffer in the generalized crypto price collapse of the last few months? Unfortunately, we don't know the answers to these questions because Tether doesn't disclose any information about its “other investments.”
Another less-than-stellar contribution to Tether’s Dec. 31 reserve report was the 10% invested in a combination of secured loans ($4.1 billion) and corporate bonds, funds and precious metals ($3.6 billion). Tether provides few details about the quality of these investments.
These are all questions a Tether owner will probably want more clarity on as they watch Tether meet the current round of redemptions. In its upcoming March 31 attestation report, which Tether should be publishing any day now, investors will be looking for some assurance on these issues.
So what would the perfect March 31 attestation report look like?
Ideally, between Dec. 31 and March 31, Tether will have shifted even more of its customers' funds into Treasury bills and cash. One hopes this movement into Treasury bills will have displaced riskier investments, particularly the murky ""other investments"" category. The safer Tether's assets were going into the Great Stablecoin Pullback of 2022, the more confidence investors can have that USDT’s peg will hold.
Investors will also want to know more about the quality of Tether’s more opaque investment categories. Without clarity, they could start to worry that Tether’s “other investments” or secured loans were impaired during the big drop in crypto prices. These worries, warranted or not, could ignite additional redemptions as Tether holders line up to get dibs on Tether's safest Treasury bill collateral.
In addition to the hoped-for improvements to Tether's investment quality, Tether needs to publish attestations on a more frequent basis in order to remove informational dry spells like the one investors currently find themselves in. Tether once boasted that it leads the industry on transparency. But it’s behind USDC on this front, which provides monthly reports.
Even better would be to copy competitor TrueUSD and go real-time. Can’t sleep on a Saturday night and want to see if your stablecoin is still well backed? TrueUSD provides 24/7 real-time attestations. Stablecoin owners shouldn't have to rely on information from 137 days ago to deal with breaking market conditions.
Let's hope that Tether's attestation comes out soon and dispels any worries. It remains the most important utility in the crypto economy. Everyone is watching.
UPDATE (May 19 14:02 UTC): Corrects the total value of the stablecoin market in April, which was $182 billion, not million."
81,364,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/18/secs-gensler-uses-crypto-oversight-needs-as-case-for-higher-budget/,SEC’s Gensler Uses Crypto Oversight Needs as Case for Higher Budget,SEC Chair Gary Gensler told U.S. House budget appropriators that he’d like to be doing more to protect crypto investors.,2022-05-18,"Gary Gensler, the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, made a pitch for a higher budget Wednesday, telling lawmakers in the U.S. House of Representatives that he wants to do more as a cop on the cryptocurrency beat.
Gensler, in testimony before members of the House Appropriations Committee, said, ""I wish we had more to be able to dedicate to this.""
He cited the recent firestorm that consumed terraUSD (UST) as an example of the industry’s investor-protection need, telling lawmakers “there was one crypto complex that went from $50 billion in value to zero just in the last three weeks.”
He explained his 1,300-person enforcement division has a little more than 50 people concentrating on this space after recently adding another 20. That still leaves the agency outgunned on crypto cases, arguing that “the public is not protected.""
He granted Wednesday that bitcoin (BTC) is one of a very small number of likely commodity tokens that belong under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s lens, but the vast majority belong under the SEC’s jurisdiction. And any exchange that handles trading in even one of them “should register with us as a national exchange.”
“We've actually said publicly – and we've talked with many of these exchanges one-on-one – come in,” he said. “Work with us.”
Meanwhile, he said the SEC will conduct a “robust enforcement effort” as he also called out crypto firms for vulnerability to hackers and the practice of making investment bets against their customers."
82,16,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/18/do-kwon-pushes-on-chain-proposal-live-even-as-92-vote-no-in-online-poll/,Do Kwon Pushes On-Chain Proposal Live Even as 92% Vote 'No' in Online Poll,"The plan to put Terra back on track after last week’s implosion was made live this morning, but online poll results suggest the community is against the move.",2022-05-18,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon on Wednesday morning announced an on-chain governance proposal even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
""Terra governance prop #1623 to rename the existing network Terra Classic, LUNA Classic ($LUNC), and rebirth a new Terra blockchain & LUNA ($LUNA) is now live,"" Kwon tweeted. He added that the proposal had the support of over 15 ""Terra builders.""
A hard fork means the splitting of a chain on which a certain protocol runs with different rules than the existing one, resulting in two separate blockchains. One chain then becomes the “main” one, even as both the blockchains continue to exist as long as there is validator and community support.
As per the proposal, the new chain would entirely cut out the failed UST product and instead focus on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications building on Terra, as reported. The current chain would continue as Terra “Classic,” while holders of LUNA on the “Classic” chain would receive a token airdrop of the new chain’s token under the plan.
At writing time, some 64% of voters on the on-chain proposal supported the fork, while 34% voted against it.
The community, however, is apparently not on board. Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll have voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork.”
Votes to the off-chain, online poll can be made by anyone regardless of if they hold luna (LUNA) tokens, unlike on-chain governance polls that require voters to stake luna before casting votes. Most comments on the proposal’s discussion are negative. Some even term it “anti-community,” while others urged legal intervention.
Market observers say a lack of trust in Terra and Kwon could have skewed the online preliminary poll voting towards being overwhelmingly negative.
“The primary challenge the Terra community has against a new fork as proposed by Do Kwon is trust,” said Dmitry Mishunin, founder of DeFi security firm HashEx, in a Telegram chat. ""Should the team choose to proceed with the new fork, there will be a need to increase trust.”
“As such, Terra needs to approach the fork with all responsibility and make additional checks for vulnerabilities,” Mishunin added.
Anton Gulin, a regional director at crypto exchange AAX, seconded the comment: “The overall sentiment towards Luna across the crypto community is exceptionally harmful. Traders and investors suffered tremendous losses and doubt management’s actions that followed the UST unpegging.”
“Anything incoming from Luna’s team may be treated in the same way as the lack of trust prevails. It’s rather a speculative asset now than a representation of a tier 1 ecosystem. The chances of a consensus are very low,” Gulin added.
Meanwhile, some prominent fund managers say Terra’s senior team could fork the blockchain regardless of the community’s sentiment toward the project.
“It's a dilemma for Kwon and Terra’s team as they can technically override the community's consensus by either forking regardless of the decision or using their staked Luna (to prevent the network from being manipulated) to change the voting to support,” Doo Wan Nam, founder of crypto fund Stable Node, in a Telegram chat.
“This will be received very poorly by not only the Terra community but the wider crypto community. However, Do and his team might not have much choice but to do it to better reflect his vision of the Terra ecosystem,” Doo added.
Although still a proposal, if a majority of network validators and the community were to approve the plan, the new network could be launched as soon as May 27, Kwon said in tweets earlier this week.
Last week, Terra’s LUNA tokens fell 99.7% as its U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lost its peg and dropped to under 10 cents, causing an outflow of funds from the Terra ecosystem and declining sentiment for the project among the crypto community."
83,365,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/19/nomuras-digital-division-to-focus-on-cryptocurrencies-first-defi-later/,"Nomura’s Digital Division to Focus on Cryptocurrencies First, DeFi Later","Phase one of Nomura’s new digital-assets division will include the top 10 cryptocurrencies, with DeFi and NFTs further down the line.",2022-05-19,"Nomura’s (NMR) new digital-asset subsidiary, announced earlier this week in a move that potentially catapults the Japanese investment bank ahead of U.S. and European rivals, will start by focusing on cryptocurrencies, the unit’s newly appointed CEO Jez Mohideen said.
Only later will the division, which will be based in Europe and given a title in the coming months, look into more exotic applications such as decentralized finance (DeFi) and non-fungible tokens (NFTs).
“To start with, I would say the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization we will be looking at opportunistically for market making and client services,” Mohideen said in an interview. “Then basically, we’ll go down further the market cap chain to see the opportunity based on institutional demand. So, also looking at DeFi protocols, if these get launched in our own launch pads, we will look to make markets there as well.”
While banks have been testing the crypto waters for some time, many have restricted themselves to trading, whether derivatives or exchange-traded products, or conducting research into various types of digital assets. Nomura was one of the first to explore safekeeping of crypto assets through the Komainu custody consortium, alongside investment fund CoinShares and storage specialist Ledger, and is also one of the first to say it plans to delve deeper into the ecosystem.
“Komainu is one of our first projects, where we learned a lot about the bottlenecks of this industry,” said Mohideen. “It’s one of our portfolio companies and, where necessary, we will of course leverage and use that solution.”
Nomura’s take on DeFi will similarly be focused on institutionalization. That’s because companies need to be able to identify their trading counterparties to be compliant with anti-money laundering (AML) regulations. As such, they tend toward DeFi pools that offer know-your-customer (KYC) and white listing, like Aave Arc, for example.
“We will be aiming to bring trust into this ecosystem,” Mohideen said.
NFT’s will feature in a later phase, and only as a carefully weighed commercial opportunity focused on the overlap between so-called Web 3 and traditional finance (TradFi), according to Mohideen.
“It’s at an early stage with NFTs, but we want to explore the infrastructure side, whether it’s collateral financing and seeing the opportunity that exists there,” he said.
Mohideen declined to say which stablecoins might be incorporated within Nomura’s crypto business. The cryptocurrency industry was shaken last week by the collapse of the algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
“I think any true stablecoin needs to be fully backed by fiat and collateral,” Mohideen said. “They will need to be correctly audited and that will bring its own risk rating. Based on that, we will make our choices.”
As for the effect on the wider market, Mohideen said many people may be asking, “is this the right time to go into crypto?”
“This is a tectonic shift,” Mohideen said. “It takes time, and maturity comes with events like last week. It’s where weakness in the system will be corrected and also in some cases it will require further, tighter regulation. It’s never good when people lose money, but this should speed up the institutionalization of this asset class.”"
84,363,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/terra-backers-delphi-digital-and-hashed-lick-their-wounds-after-ust-and-luna-collapse/,"Hashed Wallet Takes $3.5B Hit, Delphi Digital Discloses Loss After Terra's LUNA Collapse","Delphi says the LUNA tokens accounted for 13% of its assets under management at their peak, while Hashed appears to have lost over $3.5 billion.",2022-05-19,"The collapse of the tokens linked to the Terra ecosystem, stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and Luna (LUNA), has led to some major investors coming clean and detailing their losses. Two more backers of Terra are disclosing exactly how their balance sheets have been affected.
Delphi Digital, a research firm and boutique investor, said in a blog post that it always had concerns about the structure of UST and LUNA, but believed that the sizable reserves in the Luna Foundation Guard, a nonprofit that supports the Terra network, would prevent the unthinkable from happening.
“We always knew something like this was possible, and we tried to stress the risks to a system like this in our research and public commentary, but the fact is we miscalculated the risk of a ‘death spiral’ event coming to fruition. We’ve taken some heat for this over the last week, and we deserve it. The criticism is fair and we accept it,” the firm wrote.
The firm wrote that in the first quarter of 2021, Delphi Ventures Master Fund purchased a small amount of LUNA, worth 0.5% of its net asset value (NAV) at the time. That position grew as LUNA’s value increased and the fund increased its holdings, including a $10 million investment in the LFG’s funding round in February. That investment is now worthless.
While Delphi said that it didn’t sell any LUNA, it’s now sitting on “a large unrealized loss.”
Delphi was once a believer in the LFG’s ability to counterbalance any risks from the LUNA-UST relationship, but ultimately, LFG’s holdings weren't enough to be an effective backstop once the price of bitcoin (BTC) began to quickly decline earlier in the quarter. The foundation had purchased a large amount of bitcoin to help support LUNA and UST.
“We believed a high level of external collateralization was a necessity in the long run, and we saw this as a path to get there. Unfortunately, it didn’t grow fast enough compared to UST supply, and, combined with a fall in value of the BTC reserves, the liability overhang was too large to be defended,” Delphi wrote.
One of Terra’s other prominent backers is Hashed, an early-stage venture fund based in Seoul, South Korea. The company invested in TerraForm Labs’ $25 million venture round in 2021, according to Crunchbase data.
“We were immediately impressed with the sophistication of their mechanical design and execution speed,” Hashed wrote about Terra in 2019. “They’ve done a superb job executing: building product, hiring, facilitating and interacting with the community, and more.”
Publicly, Hashed has said that it is “financially sound” and Hashed Ventures hasn’t been affected by the crisis.
Hashed didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment, but on-chain data shows that the firm had staked over 27 million in LUNA on the Columbus 3 mainnet, 9.7 million in LUNA for the Columbus 4 mainnet and 13.2 million in LUNA on the current Columbus 5 mainnet.
All in all, Hashed’s losses amount to over $3.5 billion using pricing data from early April.
Local media in South Korea report that more than 200,000 investors in the country hold Terra-related tokens.
South Korea’s newly elected president, Yoon Suk-yeol, is pro-crypto and has promised a regulatory framework for the asset class, which analysts say will likely be introduced at an accelerated pace given the scale of the crisis caused by Terra."
85,362,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/19/curve-finance-proposes-to-end-crv-token-emissions-on-all-ust-pools/,Curve Finance Proposes to End CRV Token Emissions on All UST Pools,On-chain participants are already voting “yes” to the measure.,2022-05-19,"Stablecoin swap application Curve Finance is proposing to end emissions of its CRV tokens from pools related to terraUSD (UST) after UST's implosion last week.
An on-chain governance proposal floated early on Thursday pointed out that technical risks associated with using UST on Curve pools made it problematic for users and retail participants.
“Due to the current circumstances, i.e., UST trading 90% off-peg and Terra ecosystem having approx. $9B in bad debts, there is currently no prospect of a sustainable recovery of the peg,” the proposal stated.
“Furthermore it is yet unclear as to how exactly weaknesses were exploited and if these vulnerability vectors will persist even in the case of a successful bailout,” it added, referring to revival plans floated by Terra founder Do Kwon.
The proposal further pointed out that Curve pools involving UST could act as a way for opportunistic investors to attract exit liquidity for their failed investments.
Developers, however, explained the proposal came amid technical risks instead of any negative notions of being associated with Terra.
""This is more technical than any kind of judgment of UST/Terra,"" Frax Finance founder Sam Kazemian wrote in a Twitter message. ""The stablecoin is not pegged, so it literally cannot stay or be inside Curve pools until/if it ever repegs.""
Depositors on Curve earn annual yields of up to 4% from one of the many pools on the platform. Curve offers an efficient way to exchange stablecoins while maintaining low fees and low slippage, according to developer documents.
UST, a stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollar, plunged to a few cents last week as investors redeemed UST for other tokens, causing a death spiral and pushing UST off its peg. That led to billions of dollars in losses for investors while creating negative sentiment for the Terra ecosystem among community members.
A drop in UST affected related decentralized finance (DeFi) applications, such as the 4pool on Curve.
4pool was launched in early April and is composed of two decentralized stablecoins, UST and Frax Finance's FRAX, and two centralized stablecoins, USD coin (USDC) and tether (USDT). Vocal backers included Terra's Kwon, who even tweeted that the 4pool’s “goal is to starve 3pool,” the biggest Curve pool.
It worked until it didn’t: Liquidity on the 4pool lingers at a few thousand dollars at writing time, instead of the millions its creators hoped for.
If the proposal is passed, CRV emissions from all pools involving UST would be ended, effectively ending all incentives for anyone to provide their UST to Curve. And the consensus seems to agree as100% of all voters have voted to end CRV emissions from UST-related pools at writing time, data shows."
86,56,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/despite-recent-bumps-in-the-road-stablecoins-will-stick-around/,"Despite Recent Bumps in the Road, Stablecoins Will Stick Around",Why institutional investors will again move past digital assets’ volatility and bad headlines.,2022-05-19,"Over the past week, we’ve learned that stablecoins aren’t really all that stable.
The major stablecoin terraUSD – more commonly referred to as UST – officially lost its peg to the U.S. dollar, causing a catastrophic devaluation in its accompanying cryptocurrency, LUNA. Eventually Terra’s blockchain was frozen, it was delisted from most major exchanges, and the luna coin’s value declined to zero.
This week, instability has already been noted in other major stablecoins, notably DAI.
But that doesn’t mean stablecoins themselves are a doomed concept, says Ian Epstein, president of Enigma Securities, a digital broker-dealer serving institutional wealth clients.
“We should talk about what I think of as a stablecoin versus what is really another bad idea dressed up as a stablecoin,” said Epstein. “Terra and some of these other coins may call themselves algorithmic stablecoins, but that’s really more of a fancy word for a leveraged position that purports to be the asset backing for a stablecoin.”
When the leveraged assets can no longer keep up with the stablecoin’s liabilities, the structure collapses.
It’s a scenario familiar to Epstein, who spent a decade of his career as a macro portfolio manager at Autonomy Capital.
“We see emerging markets all the time that have a peg to the U.S. dollar, but where the liabilities of the central bank do not equal the assets side of their balance sheet, their reserves,” said Epstein. “That puts excess pressure on the peg and causes the devaluation of their currency.”
Read More: Tether Cut Commercial Paper Reserve by 17% in Q1, Accountants Say
When Terra’s asset balance tipped too far towards liabilities, it caused the digital economy equivalent of a “run on the bank,” said Epstein. “These were Ponzi-like, poorly structured ideas that remind me of every other failed currency peg historically.”
Terra’s great failure was using non-dollar reserves to defend a dollar peg, according to Epstein, but other stablecoins show more promise for actual stability and staying power.
“The USD coin (or USDC) stablecoin is a money market-like digitization of the dollar run by a company called Circle,” said Epstein. “It’s quite transparent – it is truly a stable stablecoin using technology not to gain things. Circle is not trying to use tractional reserve or leverage. A digital form of the dollar serves a utility function, they’re offering that product and not trying to be overly greedy. They’re playing by the rules as they understand them. That’s a stablecoin.”
Circle uses high-quality short-term paper as an asset to back the USDC token, said Epstein.
From a broker-dealer perspective, Epstein sees the value potential in a stablecoin serving as a transparent, fully backed digitized money market fund. “There’s great transparency and ease in subscribing to it and it provides a great value, as will other true stablecoins similar to USDC that will come about in other currencies over the next six to 12 months.”
Epstein’s institutional clients are also closely scrutinizing the stablecoin space. As interest rates and yields increase, stablecoins’ balance sheets should improve in health.
The incentive to create a true stablecoin as a regulated and transparent entity remains intact despite the negative headlines surrounding stablecoins, said Epstein.
Others, like AdvisorBId founder Brandon Spotswood, think the collapse of Terra and issues with other stablecoins will bring in stricter regulation and may cause central banks to accelerate work on their own digital currencies.
It might be hard to wrap your brain around institutional interest in decentralized finance (DeFi), technology built to disintermediate the financial transactions that have built many of the world’s financial institutions, but Epstein said the interest is there.
Read More: The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto
Institutions are drawn to DeFi by the efficiencies created by smart contracts, which make possible a trustless exchange with no third-party intermediaries ensuring the exchange of assets, and instantaneous settlement of transactions at any time.
“Think about all the economic rents that are derived by firms engaged in that sort of activity, and it was a very important activity, creating trust bridges,” said Epstein. “Now, smart contracts do that for us automatically. Think about how long it takes to settle a transaction, and what percentage of the year the market is open. Everything will now settle instantaneously, markets can function for 100% of the year, and decentralized finance makes it all possible. There’s a lot of value in that, and it has nothing to do with algorithmic stablecoins.”
Along with the stunning collapse of UST and LUNA, the crypto space continues to experience volatile price swings – an issue that may play into the hands of sophisticated investors like the hedge funds, asset managers and other institutions served by Enigma.
These investors are still gearing up their crypto efforts and building investment mandates, said Epstein, and most of them suffered few losses in the recent downdraft as they have yet to put most of their capital to work.
“For major institutions, they’re no more affected in digital assets than they are right now in fixed income, where credit markets have had a difficult run, or in technology, which is also down a fair bit, or in emerging markets which are down as well,” said Epstein. “There are some concerns that the prices and valuations they were looking at previously were going to be difficult to justify. With a repricing of these markets, in some ways it’s to their advantage as they are further along in their aggregation of human intellectual and financial capital to put to work in this space.”
Financial capital moves quickly, said Epstein, especially in frothy markets as it tries to find safety and value. Human capital is more likely to tell the full story.
“Never before have I seen so much human capital aggregated into one space – financial capital always goes into all kinds of things, markets go up and down – but human capital, sheer geniuses moving into a space and thinking about ways to leverage the technology, that is the most important sociocultural phenomenon in digital assets,” said Epstein. “Because of that, institutional interest and adoption will not abate. The price of bitcoin [BTC] is of less importance.”
Read More: LFG Reserves Dwindle to Just 313 Bitcoins From 80K After UST Crash"
87,359,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/bofa-says-crypto-winter-contagion-risk-concerns-are-overdone/,"BofA Says Crypto Winter, Contagion Risk Concerns Are Overdone","The collapse of the Terra network was due to prioritization of mass adoption over price stability, the bank said.",2022-05-19,"Concerns of a so-called crypto winter are unfounded, according to Bank of America (BAC), the second-largest U.S. bank.
Investors wondering why digital assets are not outperforming traditional ones should be aware that the cryptocurrency ecosystem is an “emerging tech asset class and the tokens that power the ecosystem trade like high growth, speculative risk assets,” analysts led by Alkesh Shah wrote in a May 17 note.
Digital assets are faced with similar headwinds to traditional assets, including surging inflation, higher interest rates and the increased risk of a recession, the note said.
Worries of contagion risk within the crypto ecosystem and spillover effects in traditional financial markets due to the collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) are also unfounded, the bank said, though the slump probably contributed to recent volatility in bitcoin (BTC).
UST is not backed by traditional assets and the loss of its peg shows the durability of the wider stablecoin market, because the largest stablecoins maintained theirs, it added.
Bank of America says the collapse of the Terra network was due to its prioritization of UST’s adoption over its price stability. While the bank is not positive about UST revival plans, it still sees the potential for a successful algorithmic stablecoin.
Stablecoin regulation is expected to lead to increased disclosures for algorithmic stablecoins, but an outright ban seems unlikely, the note said.
Banning algorithmic stablecoins would be “premature” and could slow the ecosystem’s growth, it added.
Read more: Citi Says Fallout From Terra Collapse Unlikely to Hit Wider Financial System"
88,360,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/first-mover-asia-pine-wants-to-test-the-liquidity-of-the-nft-market-cryptos-are-well-red/,First Mover Asia: Pine Wants to Test the Liquidity of the NFT Market; Cryptos Are Well-Red,"The number of users on NFT markets is at its lowest point this year, but still higher than in 2021. The crypto lending platform sees an opportunity.",2022-05-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos plummet along with stocks.
Insights: Although interest in the NFT market has dropped in recent months, crypto lending platform Pine sees an opportunity.
Technician's take: BTC is testing an important support zone, although long-term momentum remains weak.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $28,967 -5.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,941 -7.4%
Cryptos plummet along with stocks
It was a red Wednesday for nearly everyone in crypto.
Red for bitcoin. Red for ether. And even deeper red for major altcoins as investors continued to defy those who say that digital assets do not track stocks.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $28,900, within its range the past few days following the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the LUNA token that supports it, but down 5% over the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was off more than 8% over the same period after dropping below $2,000. Among the rest of the declining and the decrepit, SOL, AVAX, DOT, MATIC, SAND and MANA were all recently down at least 12%.
“The market is continuing its current bearish trajectory,"" Autonomy CEO James Key wrote to CoinDesk, although he noted that crypto wallet addresses with small amounts of BTC had climbed past 10 million for the first time. Still, he noted that ""institutions ... view crypto as an exotic risky asset, and as we drop into a recession, those assets are the first to be sold by those players – it was always the down side of inviting them into the crypto space.”
Equity markets had a more than forgettable day as all sectors dropped amid escalating investor fears of recession and bad news from the retail sector. The tech-focused Nasdaq plummeted 4.7%, while the S&P 500 fell 4%, their worst percentage decreases in two years. The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 1,100 points, a 3.6% drop that was its worst closing mark since mid-2021.
The retail sector has played a big role in the most recent U.S. economic recovery, and even last week the sector seemed buoyant following a strong consumer spending report. But on Tuesday, retail giant Walmart (WMT) said that its profit dropped 25% year-on-year. Target (TGT) followed Wednesday morning with its own disappointing news: sales growing just 3.3% compared with a 22% rise for the same quarter a year ago.
Bitcoin, which has struggled to hold $30,000 following the UST debacle, and the rest of the digital assets industry was swept up in the latest events. On Wednesday, London-based miner Argo Blockchain (ARBK) reported first-quarter net income of $2.1 million, a 90% falloff from the same period the previous year.
Meanwhile, in a letter posted on the company website, Mike Novogratz, the CEO of crypto merchant bank Galaxy Digital (GLXY.TO), said the company had taken profits prior to UST's crash. Pantera Capital also sold about 80% of its holdings, according to a New York Times article, citing investor Paul Veradittakit.
While remaining highly bullish on the outlook for crypto, Novogratz said those hoping for a ""V"" bottom in the market are likely to be disappointed. ""It will take restructuring, a redemption cycle, consolidation, and renewed confidence in crypto. Crypto moves in cycles, and we just witnessed a big one.""
S&P 500: $3,923 -4%
DJIA: 31,490 -3.5%
Nasdaq: 11,419 -4.7%
Gold: $1,816 +0.1%
Crypto lending platform Pine sees an opportunity in NFT markets
Art that adorns the walls of the global elite isn’t usually just to look at. They use it as a source of liquidity, too.
The team behind the Pine Protocol proposes to do something similar, but for non-fungible tokens (NFT). Fresh off closing a $1.5 million funding round led by Sino Global, Amber and Spartan Group, Pine is building a platform that allows NFT holders to access liquidity using their NFT as collateral, and a mortgage-type vehicle it is calling “Pine Now, Pay Later” for those who are looking to purchase an NFT but require financing
“A year ago, I wanted to buy a Meebit but I did not have spare ETH in my wallet. Therefore, I sold my Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) at 7 ETH to execute the trade. I wanted to buy back another BAYC but I never did and I still have my Meebit right now. In hindsight I wish I had access to a platform like Pine,” said Alex Ho, Pine’s co-founder, in a release, illustrating a use case for the platform. “I decided to build out Pine so that NFT owners like myself are able to unlock liquidity without having to sell their NFTs.”
The platform has lending pools available with different terms regarding the loan’s interest, the level at which it gets liquidated if the value drops, and the level of collateralization, Ho told CoinDesk in an interview.
One particular factor that differs between the pools is the accepted loan-to-value ratio. Pine uses the floor price (the lowest price offered) of the specific NFT collection from public data published by markets as a reference for valuation. But these are subject to the intense volatility of the crypto market. During the last two weeks, for instance, ether is down nearly 27% against the U.S. dollar, cratering valuations along the way – problematic for those lending out dollars against the asset.
How much liquidity is actually available in this market? Twenty-thousand-dollar JPEGs are very much a product of a bull market cycle but will the same value sentiment be prescribed to them in a bear market?
Crypto research house Nansen’s data suggests the number of wallets buying and selling is dipping, and the number of returning buyers and first-time buyers is also on the decline.
“The number of projects with weekly sales of over 10, 100, 1K and 10K NFTs have been on a downtrend the past week as well, signaling that there’s a drop in overall liquidity in the NFT markets,” said Martin Lee, a data journalist at Nansen, in a note to CoinDesk.
Transactions per week are 50% off an all-time high this year from around 500,000 at its peak to around 215,000.
But Lee also pointed to data that shows the number of users per week on NFT markets is the lowest it has been this year, but still higher than any time in 2021.
Nansen’s data shows there’s still weekly higher volume than in most weeks of 2021, and in the last 30 days there has been a 58% increase in volume from 941,000 ether spent per month to 1.49 million.
For Pine, expensive JPEGs – with all their questions about market volatility and liquidity – are just the start. The founders envision their asset-backed financing protocol will eventually move beyond this market to other verticals at the hands of specialized teams.
In theory, NFTs can be used to represent any sort of document of value like a house’s title, or a security agreement to finance investment in a company like a SAFT. After all, similar vehicles exist in the traditional finance world, and there’s no reason the same can’t happen for crypto – if the industry can move on from JPEGs of bored apes.
Bitcoin Struggles to Hold Support at $27K-$30K
Bitcoin (BTC) has traded in a tight range of between $27,000 and $30,000 over the past few days. That's a key support zone for BTC, and it is also the lower bound of a yearlong trading range.
BTC was down by as much as 3% over the past 24 hours.
A decisive break below $27,000 could yield further downside targets for BTC, initially toward $17,823. Further, BTC's downward sloping 50-day moving average indicates persistent trend weakness, which could keep sellers active.
Bitcoin faces strong resistance at between $33,000 and $36,000, which could stall an upswing in price. On the weekly chart, momentum remains negative despite oversold readings. That could increase the risk of a breakdown in price, similar to what occurred in March 2020 and November 2018.
Veecon conference around Web 3 and culture
Permissionless DeFi Conference
G7 finance ministers meeting
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Stablecoins in Focus: USDC vs USDT, Major Cryptos Slide Following Latest Powell Remarks
Bitcoin, other major cryptos slid as markets digested hawkish remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. Meanwhile, traders were showing a stronger preference for the USDC stablecoin over Tether. Travis Kling of Ikigai Asset Management joined ""First Mover"" to share his markets analysis, stablecoins and more. Plus, CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De explained the role of crypto in Tuesday's primary elections.
Biden Administration Wants Crypto Exchanges to Separate Customer and Corporate Funds: Federal officials saw Coinbase’s admission about customers’ vulnerability in a bankruptcy and will call for congressional action to segregate clients’ funds, source says.
Elwood Technologies Touts Strong Focus on Crypto Derivatives: Now backed by tier one banks Goldman (GS), Barclays (BCS) and Commerzbank, Elwood CEO James Stickland predicts “a huge amount of derivatives action.”
Swiss ETP Issuer 21Shares Dives Into US Market With 2 Crypto Index Funds: The new funds are its first crypto products for U.S. customers and will only be available to accredited investors.
Block Sees Bitcoin Disrupting Payments Networks, Expects Self-Custody to Grow: CFO Amrita Ahuja said the crypto could become a ""global currency for the internet.""
Bitcoin Miner Argo Blockchain Emerged Unscathed From Its UST Stake: The company said it was able to sell its minimal UST stake for around 93 cents per token before the price completely collapsed.
Lindsey McInerney: The Metaverse and the 'DIC Punch': On building the Stoner Cats and Gimmicks NFT franchises. McInerney is a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
Today's crypto explainer: How to Buy Crypto on the Apps You Already Have
Other voices: All Those Celebrities Pushing Crypto Are Not So Vocal Now (The New York Times)
""As it is, cryptocurrencies play almost no role in economic transactions other than speculation in crypto markets themselves. And if your answer is 'give it time,' you should bear in mind that bitcoin has been around since 2009, which makes it ancient by tech standards; Apple [AAPL] introduced the iPad in 2010. If crypto was going to replace conventional money as a medium of exchange – a means of payment – surely we should have seen some signs of that happening by now. Just try paying for your groceries or other everyday goods using bitcoin. It’s nearly impossible."" (New York Times columnist Paul Krugman) ... ""In the crypto investor space, it’s nice when things are on the up, and things are looking good, investors love you and customers love you. But there’s always the struggle. I've been doing this for seven years. I experience struggle all the time. And people from the outside are like, 'Oh, you look so successful.' I'm, like, 'Bitch, my job is getting punched in the face every day in, like, five different ways.'” (Meltem Demirors in a CoinDesk Road to Consensus Q&A) ... “It’s going to be hard to avoid some kind of recession."" (Wells Fargo [WFC] CEO Charlie Scharf at The Wall Street Journal Future of Everything Festival)"
89,54,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/20/dai-creator-rune-christensen-on-terras-collapse/,Dai Creator Rune Christensen on Terra's Collapse,"The MakerDAO founder said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” that he wasn’t in the mood to say “I told you so,” following Terra’s stablecoin collapse.",2022-05-20,"The founder of one so-called decentralized stablecoin thinks Terra’s collapse is a wake-up call for anyone who hasn’t already seen the inherent risks in another kind of stablecoins – uncollateralized, algorithmic stablecoins.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Rune Christensen, a Danish entrepreneur who founded MakerDAO, also said the crypto industry should enforce strict standards for stablecoins – like collateral requirements – to prevent another financial crisis like the implosion of UST, which erased $40 billion of the coin’s value in less than a week.
It might be convenient for Christensen to say that. His stablecoin platform, which went live in 2014, and which is now overseen by a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), has always required that users put up real capital if they want to mint its token, dai, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar.
“The natural end point is that algorithmic stablecoins are … collateralized, because that’s the only way you can protect your users,” Christensen said Thursday on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.”
Read more: UST Won't Be the End of Algorithmic Stablecoins | The Node
MakerDAO was the first Ethereum-based tool that allowed anyone to mint dollar proxies by collateralizing their crypto. For every dai in circulation, there is roughly double the amount of crypto held in reserve.
Terra, on the other hand, tried a different model. Instead of holding assets in reserve, it used an algorithm and a related free-floating cryptocurrency called LUNA to try to keep its synthetic dollar asset, UST, in line. Like all other “algorithmic stablecoins,” UST met a catastrophic end.
Christensen said it was obvious for others in the community that Terra would collapse long before it did.
“It was completely clear and sort of common knowledge that this model just didn’t work,” Christensen said.
That didn’t stop Terra’s founder Do Kwon from attacking Maker and its stablecoin, at one point even making the grand claim that “By my hand $DAI will die.” About a month after he made that statement, at about the pinnacle of Terra’s success, Kwon’s network entered its fated “death spiral.”
According to Christensen, Terra functioned like a Ponzi scheme. It was a project that benefited from prices shooting up, mass speculation and Kwon's braggadocio. Eventually, all massive booms must bust.
""The people in the community that were subjected to this have created some kind of community bond and intangible value that goes beyond the economics of the system,"" he said.
Christensen said that although he was expecting Terra to collapse, he was devastated when it actually happened.
“I wasn’t exactly in the mood to say ‘I told you so.’ It was a human tragedy,” he said.
The fault clearly lies with Terra and its managers, primarily the bombastic Kwon. Terra’s leadership hid risks and built products meant to intentionally lure in investors, like the Anchor Protocol, which offered an unsustainable 20% return on UST holdings.
“They were using services that were giving them a high return and then was hiding the fact of where they were getting that from,” Christensen said.
Terra’s collapse may have a prolonged fallout, and users may become concerned about investing in any stablecoin backed by volatile assets – like dai.
In dai’s case, the currency is overcollateralized, directly backed by ether (ETH), USD coin (USDC) and other cryptocurrencies.
“Nobody needs to trust anybody. You can check for yourself that all the collateral is there,” he said, noting the advantages of the blockchain.
Other stablecoins managed by corporate entities, like USDC, offer transparency through regular disclosures and may appear to be a simpler choice. He also said that tether, a controversial centralized stablecoin, is “probably sound.”
A new proposal to fork the Terra blockchain to try a different approach including adding collateral and other fail safes may point to a bigger message about community resiliency and bonding, but the sentiment may be a little too late.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
“There’s a risk it isn’t going to work because … of political fracturing,” Christensen said. He added that a plan to redistribute Terra’s remaining treasury assets to small holders has been fraught with indecision and mismanagement.
“No matter what the community attempts to do, the main objective should be to reimburse the UST holders,” he said. He added that some so-called lunatics may suffer from a “sort of Stockholm Syndrome,” but that may itself point to the “inherent resilience and value of decentralized communities.”
None of this is to say algorithmic stablecoins are dead. But a safer option might be to treat them a little bit more like traditional financial assets. When it comes to regulating algorithmic stablecoins, Christensen could eventually see a point when issuers must meet a threshold collateral requirement, like banks. Or Maker."
90,135,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/21/regulators-are-paying-attention-to-ust/,Regulators Are Paying Attention to UST,The collapse of terraUSD (UST) is algorithmic stablecoins’ Libra moment.,2022-05-21,"Luna collapsed, terraUSD collapsed and this is now going to be a Big Thing. I would go so far as to say that UST’s collapse, as dramatic as it was, will have a legacy similar to Libra’s.
PSA: I’ll be in Davos, Switzerland, covering the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting next week, so next week’s edition will be a recap. Going to be in town? Come say hi.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
Regulators and lawmakers are looking at the collapse of terraUSD (UST) as a question of whether esoteric products, such as algorithmic stablecoins, are safe for crypto investors as well as whether there are broader financial stability concerns with them.
The introduction of the Libra stablecoin project led to, years later, multiple regulatory approaches and the certainty that sooner or later, governments will have rules in place for how stablecoins can operate. However, all of these efforts have focused on asset-backed stablecoins, not algorithmic stablecoins. The novel structures here might result in new approaches from regulators. The major difference? Libra never launched, and there haven’t been any asset-backed stablecoin collapses the way there was with UST. That difference may lead to regulators placing a higher priority on this issue.
In June 2019, social media giant Facebook unveiled its long-awaited cryptocurrency project, Libra. Despite assurances from the company that it was not seeking to take over global payments or create a non-U.S. dollar-based financial system, regulators pushed back strongly against the project.
They were largely successful, too: Libra later rebranded as Diem, scaled back its vision to a fraction of what was originally intended and still ended up selling off its assets and shutting down.
Even though the project never launched, the regulatory impact was massive. Regulators worldwide suddenly saw stablecoins as a huge issue they needed to pay attention to.
The collapse of terraUSD (UST) is algorithmic stablecoins’ Libra moment. Regulators are all of a sudden paying close attention to algo stables generally, and UST and luna in particular.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen brought up Terra independently twice last week during separate Congressional hearings on the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC).
“I think you've just illustrated that we just had this last week with Terra, and with tether in illustration of the risks associated with stablecoins, that there can be runs. And we've seen this historically with private monies, and we invented a good regulatory framework, I think for dealing with this, [we’re] going to try to solve the depository [framework],” Yellen said.
Moreover, she later made it clear that she isn’t saying UST is exactly like Tether: “it depends on the backing of the stablecoin. Terra is algorithmic and doesn't really have a backing as such.”
It doesn’t seem that the FSOC, a group of regulators tasked with maintaining the economic stability of the U.S., is going to take a look at this, suggesting they don't see this as being very significant on a macro scale, though individual regulators may have more pointed concerns.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Rohit Chopra told Bloomberg this week that the collapse of Terra is showing people that a stablecoin is not “as good as a dollar.”
“Stablecoins are something that all the regulators are looking at. Most stablecoin use right now is really for speculative trading in and out of cryptocurrencies. Many are wondering if it’s one day going to be used for consumer payments, but many think it’s not ready yet,” he said.
Potential regulations will likely focus on how the stablecoins – and other cryptocurrencies – are being used.
Notably, this is one of the first times Chopra has spoken about cryptocurrencies since taking on the role of CFPB director last year.
Lawmakers in the U.S. have also been asking regulators about UST and luna – it’s even come up during confirmation hearings for new regulators.
Meanwhile, rumors abound that South Korea’s parliament may try to bring Terra creator Do Kwon in for a hearing, while law enforcement entities are probing the collapse as a possible Ponzi or other criminal enterprise.
The question remains, just what will regulators actually do? So far there isn’t a clear answer. Everyone seems to agree that algorithmic stablecoins are their own thing, distinct from reserve-backed stablecoins. Fewer individuals seem to have opinions on how that translates into clear regulation or guardrails, however.
We continue with the status quo.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange: Japan’s Liquid exchange seems to have been a poorly managed, chaotic company. This in-depth report is worth your time. To quote from the report, “Sources say that executives downplayed some information security breaches, did not disclose others, failed to adequately address low-level insider theft and prematurely stopped investigations into last year’s $90 million hack.”
(Protos) Former Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) director William Hinman received “millions of dollars in retirement benefits” from his former law firm, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, which is also a member of the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, Protos reports.
(The Block) El Salvador President Nayib Bukele tweeted that around 40 central bankers would talk bitcoin at a conference hosted in the nation. It seems the central bankers were actually in town for finance conferences, one of which did not mention bitcoin at all.
(Politico) Here’s a fairly explain-like-I'm-10 explanation of what happened last week with Terra.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
91,372,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/23/first-mover-asia-funds-lost-billions-in-the-terra-collapse-here-are-the-ongoing-effects-bitcoin-sees-red/,First Mover Asia: Funds Lost Billions in the Terra Collapse. Here are the Ongoing Effects; Bitcoin Sees Red,"When a fund suffers a major dent to its token, the impact reverberates widely throughout the venture funding eco-system; most major cryptos fell despite gains in U.S. equity markets.",2022-05-23,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: While stocks had a good day, bitcoin and other major cryptos continued to struggle.
Insights: The effects of the Terra collapse will continue to ripple through the investment eco-system.
Technician's take: A brief relief bounce is likely, similar to what occurred in late February and late March.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,137 -3.9%
Ether (ETH): $1,972 -3.5%
Stocks rise but cryptos fall
What happened to correlation?
While stocks spiked in Monday trading, major cryptocurrencies continued their recent trudge through a red gloom.
By early afternoon, bitcoin had fallen almost 4% over the past 24 hours to the low end of the $29,000-$30,000 range it has occupied for the nearly two weeks since the UST stablecoin and LUNA token that supports it imploded. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, has dropped 26% from its high this month near $40,000 and roughly 55% since reaching its record peak last November. Ether, the second largest crypto by market cap, was down approximately 3.5% over the same period and changing hands a little below $2,000.
Most major cryptos spent much of the day in the red with AVAX recently off over 8% and GALA, ALGO and MANA each down more than 6% amid ongoing investor fears about inflation and a possible recession as central banks tighten monetary policy. Trading was choppy underlining these concerns.
""We don't have earnings [this week}, we haven't had a stablecoin lose $48 billion, and we haven't had a Presidential Executive Order,"" 3iQ Digital Asset's Head of Research Mark Connors told CoinDesk, adding: ""It's about inflation and that's uncertain. So we are rangebound.""
Stocks traveled a different paths, as they've done for most the past few days, rising after senior executives at JPMorgan Chase said that U.S. consumer credit market was in good shape short-term. The S&P 500, which spent a large portion of Friday in bear market territory, meaning that the index was trading at least 20% lower than its previous high, increased 1.8%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and tech heavy Nasdaq climbed 1.9% and 1.5%, respectively. Last week, the indices plunged almost 3%.
Cryptos have spent much of the year tracking stocks so the latest separation represents at least a small twist in their evolving relationship. 3iQ's Connors said that digital assets will likely remain rangebound at least until the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics issues its next consumer price index report (CPI) in early June. The CPI may show if inflationary pressure is waning.
""For right now, you might have some people pushing uncertain markets to see what breaks but I don't think there will be breaks either way,"" Connors said.
S&P 500: 3,973 +1.8%
DJIA: 31,880 +1.9%
Nasdaq: 11,535 +1.5%
Gold: $1,853 +0.4%
The ongoing damage to Terra investors
The destruction of the Terra protocol has meant a significant hit on the balance sheets of all of its investors. Data about the carnage is available to view on Block explorers, including Korean VC firm Hashed’s staked tokens, which were at one time worth over $3.5 billion.
Hashed’s loss on luna and other Terra ecosystem tokens may not have adversely affected its cash position. Hashed got most of these tokens through its investment in Terraform Labs, and likely bought more of the tokens as it peaked – and probably sold some too.
But for any liquid crypto fund, cash is periphery. Cash is boring. Cash doesn’t have the same amount of leverage.
To understand the significance of crypto on the VC’s balance sheet — and why it matters so much for Hashed - let's look at how Singapore’s Three Arrows Capital made a $1.2 billion position (using January 2021 pricing) in the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC). (New York-based Grayscale is owned by Digital Currency Group, the parent company of CoinDesk.)
Three Arrows Capital is licensed to manage assets of not more than SGD250 million (US$181 million) for its Singapore entity, according to a filing with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. It also has an entity in the British Virgin Islands, with which it has split the GBTC position equally, according to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Even the 50-50 split would exceed the amount that Three Arrows Capital is authorized to manage.
Three Arrows likely accomplished this through leveraged bitcoin, as BTC has always been an option to buy into the GBTC. Three Arrows wanted to do this because its interest in GBTC is a premium harvesting play, exploiting its current discount with a hope that it returns to a premium or at least to market value.
Three Arrows’ history has shown this wasn’t a wise investment because of the market downturn through most of 2022 and GBTC’s structural problems.
Let's return to Hashed and the other VC firms that held Terra’s tokens in their liquid portfolios.
One scenario is that some firms used the LUNA they had staked as collateral for the leveraged purchase of further tokens for both trading, and to invest in funding rounds that used a Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (SAFT) or another investment vehicle.
Creating an agreement with an over-the-counter desk that pledged staked LUNA for crypto to buy into the SAFT would be a simple task for a fund. Once the lock-up period for the specific token was complete, the OTC desk could be repaid through gains from that token. And the best part of it all is that this could be done without touching its cash position.
So when a fund takes a massive hit on its token portfolio, the effect reverberates through the entire ecosystem. Now, post-LUNA, there will be billions less in dry powder available for VCs to deploy even if their cash positions are relatively sound.
Antalpha Technologies Managing Director Max Liao doesn’t think this will scare off institutional investors. Rather, he’s reminded of the early 2000s dot-com bubble where companies died as fast as they were born. Despite the dozens if not hundreds that imploded, taking with them billions in venture capital dollars, this gave us Amazon (AMZN), Google (GOOG) and PayPal (PYPL).
“While the importance of profit is a given, the events of the past few weeks have only underscored that due diligence and risk management are also critical factors in the execution of successful venture investment,” he said to CoinDesk. “It is imperative that emergent protocols and potential investors remember that businesses that can change the world learn from both their own success and the failure of others.”
For entrepreneurs and builders, this could mean a change of structure for that next investment that involves more cash and fewer tokens.
But the problem with cash is that it comes with much more conservative terms, particularly in the size of rounds and the risk investors are willing to take.
Bitcoin Holds Support at $27K-30K; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) has traded in a tight range between $28,500 and $30,000 over the past week. Despite short-term swings, the cryptocurrency has managed to hold support above $27,000, which could keep some buyers active.
BTC declined by as much as 2% over the past 24 hours.
Momentum signals are improving on the daily chart, similar to what occurred in late February and late March. Further, the relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart continues to rise from oversold levels, which could point to a relief bounce in price.
Still, the daily RSI will need to rise above 50 to determine if a price bounce has staying power.
On the weekly chart, the RSI is the most oversold since March 2020, although momentum signals remain negative. That suggests upside could be limited for BTC, initially toward the $33,000-$35,000 resistance zone.
World Economic Forum
DC Blockchain Summit
CBDC hearing: Digital Assets and the Future of Finance
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Tether Questions, Fmr BitMEX CEO Sentenced to 2 Years Probation
Investors are feeling the aftershocks of the terraUSD (UST) and LUNA crashes as Tether's market cap drops by $10 billion. Alexandre Lores of Quantum Economics joined ""First Mover"" to discuss concerns over stablecoins and the crypto companies supporting them. Plus, crypto markets analysis from Arpan Gautam of Dexterity Capital provided crypto markets analysis and details on the sentencing of former BitMEX CEO Arthur Hayes from CoinDesk's Cheyenne Ligon.
Korean Police Move to Freeze Luna Foundation Guard Assets: Report: Seoul police are seeking to ban the entity from withdrawing suspected embezzled funds.
China Can’t Seem to Stop Bitcoin Mining: Reported hashrate fell to zero for two months in China last year, but it has since returned rather abruptly.
Regulators Are Paying Attention to UST: The collapse of terraUSD (UST) is algorithmic stablecoins’ Libra moment.
Japanese Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Trust to Establish Digital Asset Custodian: Report: The bank's pivot to digital assets comes alongside a global banking shift toward cryptocurrencies.
Fed Survey: 12% of US Adults Held Crypto in 2021: It marks crypto’s first appearance in the central bank’s “Economic Well-Being of U.S. Households” survey.
There Was No Terra ‘Attack’: Conspiracy theories won’t save you from financial reality, says CoinDesk's chief insights columnist.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Bitcoin Pizza Day?
Other voices: Crypto Might Have an Insider Trading Problem (The Wall Street Journal)
""Families are watching the investments they meant for down payments or college tuition or retirement shrink, day after day. They’ve seen big retailers like Walmart [WMT] and Target [TGT] record their steepest stock drops in decades this week, after earnings that signaled an end to the pandemic spending boom. The market turmoil has scared corporate chieftains away from taking their companies public. In Silicon Valley, dreams of multibillion-dollar valuations have been replaced by the reality of layoffs and recoiling investors."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Alts are down over 80 percent from the highs. In 2017 it was over 95 percent. That is down another 70 percent. My point is picking bottoms is dangerous and if you do scale in slowly."" (Galaxy Digital CEO Mike Novogratz) ... ""Pizza Day brings out that daydream of being a bitcoin billionaire from having made a single brilliant trade. We all hate the actual guy that made this trade because we want to be him. We see the guy as lucky, as having won the lottery and we are envious."" (Jimmy Song in Bitcoin Magazine)"
92,170,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/24/occ-chief-hsu-crypto-industry-has-unhealthy-dependency-on-hype/,OCC Chief Hsu: Crypto Industry Has Unhealthy ‘Dependency on Hype’,The acting head of the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has worked to limit banks’ involvement in cryptocurrencies.,2022-05-24,"Michael Hsu, who runs a key U.S. banking agency, said the recent fiery collapse of terraUSD (UST) and the wider drama that came with it should serve as a “wake-up call” to the industry, which he argued has grown too fast.
Hsu, the acting chief of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), spoke at the DC Blockchain Summit in Washington on Thursday, saying the cryptocurrency industry has an unhealthy “dependency on hype” that he thinks is getting worse.
""The recent collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin and associated sell-off in crypto markets has shown that hype-driven growth can lead to bubbles, harm consumers and crowd out productive innovation,"" said Hsu, whose agency will likely have a prominent role in regulating stablecoins and chartering crypto firms seeking to become banks. He argued the incident demonstrated that crypto failures can have wider effects as this one ""sparked contagion to the largest stablecoin, tether [USDT], and to the broader crypto ecosystem.""
Read more: US Senators Lummis and Gillibrand Set to Propose Crypto Oversight Bill Next Month
The self-described “crypto skeptic” said he does see some benefits to the rise of digital assets, but noted he’s satisfied with his agency’s moves to ensure that it’s difficult for traditional banks to become overly exposed to crypto. He ran through a lengthy list of negatives about the industry, including that it's so vulnerable to hackers and doesn't seem to be heading toward a widely shared infrastructure that could be easier to defend.
He also cited the recent admission by Coinbase (COIN) that a bankruptcy could tie up customer's assets. That disclosure from the big U.S. exchange also prodded the Biden administration to decide to press Congress for new segregation rules that would wall off customer assets, CoinDesk has reported.
""For a technology and industry so focused on promoting an 'ownership society,' the lack of clarity on ownership rights, modes of ownership, and custody of digital assets seems like a fundamental problem that needs to be solved,"" Hsu said.
UPDATE (May 24, 2022, 22:08 UTC): Adds comments from Hsu's speech and context."
93,371,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/25/ftxs-bankman-fried-pitches-cftc-on-directly-clearing-customers-crypto-swaps/,FTX’s Bankman-Fried Pitches CFTC on Directly Clearing Customers’ Crypto Swaps,"The crypto exchange’s founder and CEO made his case at a Washington, D.C., roundtable, while mainstream derivatives firms painted his ideas as dangerous.",2022-05-25,"FTX cryptocurrency exchange founder and CEO Sam Bankman-Fried faced a roomful of derivatives industry giants and regulators in Washington on Wednesday to argue for his company’s proposal to directly clear transactions. He also neatly illustrated the potential divide between the two sides by tweeting comments while the discussion was underway.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) hosted the discussion about the possibility of cutting out industry middlemen in an overhaul of derivatives trading first sought by FTX’s U.S. derivatives operation. While the CFTC weighs the company’s application, it invited industry players and academics to debate the topic in the large room at its Washington offices where the agency has often held talks over industry developments. After several hours, Bankman-Fried couldn’t resist dressing down those criticizing his company’s idea.
“There is some irony in some of the statements made by people attempting to protect those who know massively more than they do about the topic and who understand these products extremely well,” Bankman-Fried said late in the day. He further accused critics of the FTX proposal of “condescendingly” talking about protecting users who he maintained know much more than many of the experts the CFTC invited.
“I just had to get that off my chest a little bit,” he said, adding that consumer protection is “extremely important.”
Earlier in the day, Bankman-Fried had said “a lot of things that I think are pretty wrong that have been said, and a lot of things that are pretty helpful, and I really appreciate the latter."" The basic idea -- known as “non-intermediated clearing” -- is that his company is seeking the ability to clear his customers’ margin-backed derivatives contracts directly without traditional intermediaries, with Bankman-Fried often touting its benefits for handling market stress as it happens.
During the discussion, the existing industry structure was defended as “quite adaptive” against volatile situations by Sean Downey, executive director for clearing, risk and capital policy at CME Group, the world’s leading derivatives exchange. Downey also criticized any new system that would lean on algorithms over capital cushions, arguing that the former brings its own hazards. “We’ve seen that movie before, and in fact, we saw it very recently,” he said, referring to the recent meltdown of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
Several of the derivatives industry representatives also highlighted their worries about the use of automatic liquidations to respond to real-time market stresses, as envisioned in the FTX.US application to the CFTC.
Gerry Corcoran, CEO of R.J. O’Brien & Associates, called the use of such liquidations a “weapon of mass destruction” that “will create a cycle of flash crashes” without the human interventions common in today’s market that could limit dramatic swings that computers might allow.
For his part, Bankman-Fried responded to dozens of points on Twitter as the discussion stretched over hours. He returned to the debate in the room to defend his views on handling customers’ positions on a live basis, which his company has already been doing in other countries.
""Being able to have that real-time measurement of collateral and position size in real time action allows you to not deleverage a customer position until it actually is necessary, while still being able to do so prior to creating systemic risk,"" he said. ""There are pros and cons, but I think there are a lot of advantages.""
Read more: FTX's Bankman-Fried Is Already a Political Mega-Donor. He’s Doubling Down
UPDATE (May 25, 19:45 UTC): Updated with additional critical comments from Bankman-Fried."
94,32,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/25/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-struggles-to-hold-30k-ahead-of-fed-minutes/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Struggles to Hold $30K Ahead of Fed Minutes,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 25, 2022.",2022-05-25,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: Bitcoin can't seem to break the $30,000 threshold ahead of the Fed's minutes release later today. Ethereum Classic is going against the market, trading up 10% on the day.
Market Moves: Bitcoin options traders are more focused on hedging exposure than ever before, according to data from Arcane Research.
Feature: A snapshot of the Terra blockchain is expected this week. Shaurya Malwa takes a look at how ""new"" LUNA will be distributed.
Bitcoin (BTC) was trading up on the day but struggled to remain above the $30,000 threshold. The world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has lost more than half of its value from its all-time high around $69,000 reached in November 2021.
BTC briefly hit $30,000 in the early trading hours on Wednesday but has since dropped to around $29,600. It is up 1.1% over the last 24 hours.
Ethereum (ETH) was down 0.6% on the day and is struggling to stay above $2,000.
Ethereum Classic (ETC), which has a market capitalization of $3.19 billion, was going against the market and trading 10% up on the day. Ethereum Classic is a blockchain that was created after a contentious hard fork of the Ethereum blockchain took place in 2016. It is like Ethereum in that it supports smart contracts and decentralized applications, known as dapps.
In traditional markets, Asian stocks inched higher while U.S. equity-index futures reversed earlier gains as investors awaited minutes from the Federal Reserve’s latest policy meeting. Those are scheduled for release on Wednesday at 2 p.m. ET (18:00 UTC).
As investors await the Fed minutes, the crypto market is seeing relatively muted trade.
Matthew Dibb, co-founder of Stack Funds, said that he does not foresee any overly optimistic outcome from the release given the language that has been adopted recently by the Fed.
For crypto, Dibb does not predict much impact. “Our expectation for crypto is generally a continuation in the current range or slight downside if macro leads,” said Dibb.
Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at the U.K.-based digital-asset broker GlobalBlock, said that the Fed’s minutes could spark a relief rally in the short-term for crypto.
“As the FOMC makes key decisions about interest rates and the growth of the United States money supply, these meeting minutes will be pivotal for bitcoin’s price in the short term,” said Sotiriou. FOMC stands for Federal Open Market Committee – the Fed's panel that sets monetary policy.
If the Fed hints dovishness for the first time in a long while by mentioning no 75 basis point hikes or a pause in tightening on return to neutral rates, Sotiriou said this would be bullish and could lead to a rally in the next one or two weeks for bitcoin.
On-chain metrics
Bitcoin options traders are more focused on hedging exposure than ever before, according to data from Arcane Research.
Options traders are hedging at large, proven by skews reaching new all-time highs across durations. The 25-delta skew shows the difference between the implied volatility for put and call options at the same maturity. A positive skew signals a higher demand for put options than call options, signaling that traders are leaning bearish.
“These skew levels are unprecedented in the bitcoin options market history, suggesting a very pessimistic outlook among options traders,” wrote Arcane Research in its weekly update.
The one month (25D) skew reached a 24-hour average all-time high on May 12 of 24%, surpassing May peaks from 2020 and 2021.
The six-month 25D skew also shows a strong demand for puts, sitting at 12.57% currently, according to data from Arcane Research. The longer-dated maturities have not reached the current high levels before. On June 1, 2021, the six-month skew peaked at 4.75%.
Andreessen Horowitz Establishes $4.5B Crypto Fund, Its Fourth Silicon Valley venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz is doubling down on its crypto investments despite the market downturn.
Crypto Asset Managers Chase Yield With New Investment Products A cocktail of high inflation and cash-hungry crypto firms are prompting fund issuers like Bitwise and 21Shares to get creative.
Soona Amhaz’s Volt Debuts $50M Crypto Fund Backed by Marc Andreessen, Chris Dixon The VC firm will continue to focus on infrastructure, DeFi, NFTs and DAOs.
DeFi Platform Lido Votes Against Supporting New Terra Blockchain Terra's revival plan was approved by network validators earlier Wednesday.
Web 3 Education Platform Pitches ‘Earn While You Learn’ to Business Executives Metacademy.xyz’s mix of crypto incentivization and education already boasts 2,000 users, founder Shelly Palmer told CoinDesk.
By Shaurya Malwa
A snapshot of the Terra blockchain is expected to take place later this week ahead of the launch of “Terra 2.0,” a so-called revival of the Terra ecosystem following the implosion of terraUSD (UST) earlier this month.
The revival plan is now moving forward after the conclusion Wednesday of a vote among network validators, with a 65% approval rate.
Investors who held over 10,000 LUNA before UST’s implosion will receive the new tokens periodically to prevent immediate selling. Over 30% of their tokens would be unlocked initially, and the remaining 70% would be released over two years. New tokens will be distributed after six months to such holders.
Wallets with more than 1 million LUNA or UST prior to UST’s depegging would have to wait more than a year before receiving any tokens, with a four-year vesting period thereafter, according to the revival plan.
A snapshot – meaning a recording of the state of a blockchain at a specific point in time – will allow Terra to send the newly issued LUNA tokens to holders of the old LUNA. This would, in theory, allow old holders to regain some of their lost investment value while incentivizing usage of the new blockchain.
The snapshot for the Terra 2.0 is expected on May 26. “Going by block times, the post snapshot block, 7,790,000, could happen as soon as May 26, 2022, 16:20:00 UTC,” Terra developers said in a post on Tuesday.
“The supply at genesis is considerably lower than anybody is anticipating, closer to 116.7M rising to 182M after 1 year,” they added, addressing community concerns about a highly inflated luna supply.
How the snapshot plan came about
In early May, UST lost its peg with the U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 7 cents in the weeks afterward, causing prices of its related luna (LUNA) tokens to drop 99.7% and outflows of over $28 billion from Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) apps.
This led to a loss of sentiment among LUNA investors and traders, apparently even sparking public outrage in Korea, where Terra had a huge community, and some crypto funds seeing billions of dollars in losses.
Terra’s oft-brash founder Do Kwon came up with a revival plan in the days afterward, proposing a “fork” of the blockchain and an “airdrop” to holders affected by the UST implosion.
The plan tries to make the community whole while reviving their trust in the Terra ecosystem.
“Fork” of a blockchain refers to the creation of a new blockchain with data from the old blockchain preceding that of the newer ones. Terra developers have, however, stated that ""Terra 2.0"" will be an entirely new project, meaning no data from the current chain will be carried on to the new one.
The revival plan, although voted to pass by Terra’s network validators, was pushed live even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork,” as reported.
LUNA prices are up over 6.2% in the past 24 hours.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Lyllah Ledesma and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
95,368,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/25/first-mover-asia-regulatory-attention-on-terra-could-change-south-korean-trading-environment-bitcoin-goes-sideways/,First Mover Asia: Regulatory Attention on Terra Could Change South Korean Trading Environment; Bitcoin Goes Sideways,"The founders of two prominent crypto-related organizations said tightened restrictions could make it difficult for foreign tokens to list on Korean exchanges, discouraging projects from trying.",2022-05-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos trade sideways.
Insights: In the aftermath of the Terra implosion, South Korea's crypto trading environment could change. Here's what might happen.
Technician's take: BTC has shown no signs of life but a volatile price move is likely.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,612 -0.05%
Ether (ETH): $1,945 -1.5%
Bitcoin travels sideways
Bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies traveled sideways for the second consecutive day.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $29,700, up slightly and roughly where it stood 24 and 48 hours earlier. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was down over a percentage point, still changing hands a little below the $2,000 level it has held much of this week. Other cryptos were mixed, some rising a little and others falling, although metaverse tokens MANA and SAND had a good day with SAND climbing over 7% at one point. TRX was also recently up more than 5%.
A number of crypto markets analysts say that bitcoin will remain in the $28,500 to $30,500 range it has held since the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin two weeks ago until investors have clarity in how the current uncertain environment of high inflation and sagging economic indicators will resolve itself. According to minutes of their last meeting, released Wednesday, Federal Reserve officials indicated they would have to raise interest rates by 0.5% at each of their next two meetings. The U.S. central bank hiked the rate by the same amount on May 4, but has continued to face criticism for not adopting more hawkish monetary remedies sooner to tame rising prices.
Stocks did better than they have for much of the past few months with the tech-heavy Nasdaq rising 1.5% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average increasing more moderately. Cryptos and equities have suffered as investors have shied away from riskier assets. Gold and yields on 10-year Treasuries sank.
Brent crude oil, a measure of energy market prices, hovered over $111 per barrel, and with the summer U.S. travel season approaching, demand for oil is expected to be strong.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program Wednesday, Michael Sonnenshein, the CEO of crypto asset manager Grayscale Investments, a subsidiary of CoinDesk parent company Digital Currency Group, noted the ""selling pressure"" and volatility in digital assets but also that the same trends had infected other investment classes.
""Whether it's tech, crypto or really anything, I can't think of many things that had been sheltered from this recent pullback,"" Sonnenshein said. ""There have also been events like Terra that have led to additional selling pressure.""
But Sonnenshein added optimistically: ""In the near term, we will find our footing.""
S&P 500: 3,978 +0.9%
DJIA: 32,120 +0.6%
Nasdaq: 11,434 +1.5%
Gold: $1,853 -0.7%
South Korea's trading environment could change
The implosion of Terra’s U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin terraUSD (UST) could change South Korea’s frenzied crypto trading market as regulators pay more attention to the situation, two founders of prominent crypto-related organizations said.
The country, a hotbed of trading activity, could tighten restrictions on listings and make it difficult for foreign tokens to list on Korean exchanges, discouraging projects from even trying.
“There are a few elements that might get impacted, especially with the listing part,” Doo Wan Nam, a South Korean who leads growth at MakerDAO and is the founder of crypto venture fund StableNode, told CoinDesk.
UST lost its tie earlier this month as investors sold it for other U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoins, including tether (USDT), in the absence of adequate liquidity, causing UST's price to fall to as low as 7 cents. The luna (LUNA) token that supports the Terra ecosystem lost 99.7% of its value following UST’s failure and Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) applications dropped over $28 billion in locked value.
Suicide helplines flooded Terra-centric community forums in the days following the implosion. At the center of the drama is Terraform Labs, the Singapore-based company behind Terra, and its Korean founder Do Kwon. Kwon is infamous for responding to critics with condescension and even calling for the death of other stablecoin projects.
As per local reports, regulators could tighten listing norms for crypto exchanges in the country as they try to protect the everyday investor from a Terra-like repeat. This could, however, lead to the limitations on how coins are listed and offered to local investors.
Doo noted the potential addition of “safeguards on exchanges” to ensure they meet certain requirements, including “white paper and regular disclosers (updates) from listed coins,” adding, “We aren't sure whether they will implement such but, if so, it would put a burden on bothKorean exchanges and also listed coins.”
Decentralized finance-focused tokens from foreign companies may struggle to enter the Korean market altogether: “Many foreign-based coins, especially DeFi, might be difficult to list on Korean exchanges as such compliance would be difficult to enforce,” Doo explained.
Korea remains one of the world’s largest crypto trading regions, with $2.5 billion worth of tokens traded in the past 24 hours within the country's exchanges alone.
Meanwhile, some market observers say retail traders in Korea – known for their aggressive futures and altcoin trading – could hold off from trading risky assets.
“Given what's happening, the degens may become more cautious in their attitude to the conservative assets,” said Alexander Tkachenko, founder of commodities-based token platform VNX, told CoinDesk. “Regulated crypto products as well as stablecoins backed by real assets such as gold may benefit.”
Bitcoin Stabilizes in Tight Range; Support at $27K, Resistance at $30K-$35K
Bitcoin (BTC) is in a consolidation phase, which is defined by a tight price range with low trading volume. So far, the cryptocurrency has struggled to make a decisive move above $30,000, which is near the top of its recent range.
BTC is up by 3% over the past 24 hours, and momentum has improved over the past week. That means buyers could remain active above the $27,500 support level.
The sharp down move on May 12 toward $25,300 occurred on high volume, which could be a sign of capitulation, albeit less significant than in the previous sell-off.
Still, despite room for a price bounce, upside appears to be limited because of negative momentum readings on the weekly and monthly charts.
World Economic Forum
Blockchain & Sustainable Economic Growth conference
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia private capital expenditure (Q1)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Grayscale’s Sonnenshein on Crypto ETFs; Is JPMorgan Bullish on Bitcoin? The Sandbox on the Metaverse
As investors await bitcoin's next price move, CEO Michael Sonnenshein of CoinDesk sister company Grayscale Investments joined ""First Mover"" to discuss crypto markets and the launch of his firm's first European ETF. Alex McDougall of Stablecorp shared his analysis of the Terra LUNA and UST failures. Plus, we continued the conversation about the metaverse as The Sandbox CEO Mathieu Nouzareth shared his views on this emerging space.
Guggenheim's Minerd Says Bitcoin Will Drop to $8K. We Checked His Record: A quick recap of some of the noted analyst's key prognostications shows just how mixed his track record has proven.
Crypto Whales Ditched Tether for USDC After Stablecoin Panic: The UST failure prompted large investors on the Ethereum blockchain to leave USDT for the perceived safety of its biggest competitor.
Jae Kwon Returns to ‘NewTendermint’ to Battle for the Soul of Cosmos: Ignite, which rebranded from Tendermint in February, will split into two entities: Ignite and NewTendermint.
Defining Cryptocurrency Regulation Important for the Industry to Grow: Morgan Stanley Disagreement on new legislation would be negative and lead to an extended period of uncertainty, the bank said.
Terra Snapshot Expected This Week. Here’s How 'New' Luna Will Be Distributed: The supply of tokens on the new blockchain will be just over 116 million, developers said.
There Was No Terra ‘Attack’: Conspiracy theories won’t save you from financial reality, says CoinDesk's chief insights columnist.
Today's crypto explainer: What Can You Buy With Bitcoin?
Other voices: Cryptocrash: ‘I was arrested for knocking on Luna boss's door' (BBC)
""The metaverse will, at times, be trippy and hallucinogenic. We can live our best, most ideal lives in a body-like avatar and quickly revert back to our real lives without changing physical locations. We can parachute in and out of this world in seconds, seamlessly interweaving multiple different realities into the natural rhythms of our lives."" (Everyrealm CEO Janet Yorio and Director of Gaming Zach Hungate for CoinDesk) ... ""The cost for flights is surging ahead of summer: Airline fares rose 18.6% between March and April, according to the latest data from the consumer-price index. Compared with a year ago, airfare prices are up 33.3% on an unadjusted basis. Common strategies such as waiting for prices to drop, going with another airline or spending frequent-flier miles might not be enough to take the sting out of the cost of traveling, industry analysts say. Travelers who haven’t yet bought their tickets are left with tough choices: pay steeper prices, find other ways to save on their trips or stay closer to home."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""There's something to be said about the eerie similarities between predatory lending to Black people during the housing bubble and the effects it had on our community and now seeing Black celebrities push crypto on black people. We know the outcome. (Oscar winner Travon Free)"
96,369,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/25/terra-snapshot-expected-this-week-heres-how-new-luna-will-be-distributed/,Terra Snapshot Expected This Week. Here’s How 'New' Luna Will Be Distributed,"The supply of tokens on the new blockchain will be just over 116 million, developers said.",2022-05-25,"A snapshot of the Terra blockchain is expected to take place later this week ahead of the launch of “Terra 2.0,” a so-called revival of the Terra ecosystem following the implosion of the terraUSD (UST) algorithmic stablecoin earlier this month.
The revival plan is now moving forward after the conclusion Wednesday of a vote among network validators, with a 65% approval rate.
Investors who held over 10,000 LUNA tokens before UST’s implosion will receive the new tokens periodically, to prevent immediate selling. Over 30% of their tokens would be unlocked initially, and the remaining 70% would be released over two years. New tokens will be distributed after six months to such holders.
Wallets with more than 1 million LUNA or UST prior to UST’s depegging from the U.S. dollar would have to wait more than a year before receiving any tokens, with a four-year vesting period thereafter, according to the revival plan.
A snapshot – meaning a recording of the state of a blockchain at a specific point in time – will allow Terra to send the newly issued LUNA tokens to holders of the old LUNA. This would, in theory, allow old holders to regain some of their lost investment value while incentivizing usage of the new blockchain.
The snapshot for Terra 2.0 is expected on Thursday. “Going by block times, the post snapshot block, 7,790,000, could happen as soon as May 26, 2022, 16:20:00 UTC,” Terra developers said in a post on Tuesday.
“The supply at genesis is considerably lower than anybody is anticipating, closer to 116.7M rising to 182M after [one] year,” they added, addressing community concerns about a highly inflated luna supply.
In early May, UST lost its peg with the U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 7 cents in the weeks afterward, causing prices of its related luna (LUNA) token to drop 99.7% and outflows of over $28 billion from Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) apps.
This led to a loss of sentiment among LUNA investors and traders, apparently even sparking public outrage in South Korea, where Terra had a huge community. Some crypto funds were hit with billions of dollars in losses.
Terra’s often-brash founder Do Kwon came up with a revival plan in the days afterward, proposing a fork of the blockchain and an airdrop to holders affected by the UST implosion.
The plan tries to make the community whole while reviving their trust in the Terra ecosystem.
A blockchain fork usually refers to the creation of a new blockchain with data from the old blockchain. While this plan may seem like a fork, Terra developers have stated that Terra 2.0 will be an entirely new project, and no data from the current chain will be carried on to the new one.
The revival plan, although passed by Terra’s network validators, was pushed live even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork,” as reported.
LUNA was up over 6.2% in the past 24 hours."
97,367,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/25/circle-asks-us-fed-not-to-step-on-its-toes-by-launching-a-digital-dollar/,Circle Asks US Fed Not to Step on Its Toes by Launching a Digital Dollar,"The public is already served well by private-sector tokens, the USDC stablecoin issuer said in a comment letter to the central bank.",2022-05-25,"Circle Internet Financial is arguing the U.S. Federal Reserve should pass on launching a digital dollar, arguing that could strangle private-sector efforts such as Circle’s to manage their own dollar-based tokens.
Circle, the issuer of the USDC stablecoin, said in a comment letter to the Fed that its token is already meeting “many of the potential benefits” of a central bank digital currency (CBDC) in the U.S.
“A host of companies, including Circle, have leveraged blockchain technology to support trillions of dollars of economic activity with fiat-referenced stablecoins,” the company told the Fed in a letter released Wednesday, responding to the Fed’s invitation to comment on a January report. “The introduction of a CBDC by the Federal Reserve could have a chilling effect on new innovations.”
The stablecoin industry has been suffering collateral damage recently from the ugly collapse of terraUSD (UST), although that was an algorithmic stablecoin, not one backed by reserves. Boston-based Circle made a case to the Fed that its USDC stablecoin – which ranks second by global market cap – is backed by “cash and short-duration U.S. government obligations” and the company assures the public regularly with attestations about the content of those reserves.
“USDC does not detract from, but in fact supports, the dollar’s role as the world’s reserve currency,” the company argued.
Circle also underlined potential harms a digital dollar might pose to traditional banking, which the banking industry itself pointed out in its own letters. The stablecoin issuer left the Fed with a remark that’s a common refrain among technology-intensive industries:
“It could be challenging for the Federal Reserve to issue a CBDC on a technology standard that does not quickly become obsolete, given the pace of technological advancements,” Circle argued in its letter. The letter added that the company does support a comprehensive regulatory structure for crypto in the U.S.
Fed officials have routinely said the U.S. central bank doesn’t intend to move forward on a CBDC without backing from the president and the Congress."
98,65,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/25/crypto-asset-managers-chase-yield-with-new-investment-products/,Crypto Asset Managers Chase Yield With New Investment Products,A cocktail of high inflation and cash-hungry crypto firms are prompting fund issuers like Bitwise and 21Shares to get creative.,2022-05-25,"Crypto shops are betting on lending amid the market downturn with yield products that boast modest annual returns – by the industry’s lofty standards, at least – on their clients’ dollars
Turning loaned dollars into more dollars is hardly a new proposition in crypto: myriad decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols woo stablecoin holders with a handful of basis points. Terra’s recently imploded Anchor offered 20% yields generated through murky means.
By contrast, the new yield products generate their returns through “rational” rails, said Matt Hougan, chief investment officer for Bitwise, which is rolling out a “USD Income Fund” that loans investors’ dollars to counterparties like Coinbase (COIN) and Gemini (who then loan them into the stablecoin market) in the chase for 4% to 8% yields.
“You can think of us as an aggregation point for cash that is entering this market,” Hougan said on a call. “There’s significant demand for cash in the crypto economy.” He said some of that pressure comes from the void usually filled by traditional lending institutions “unwilling” to loan to a risky industry.
In the short term, that discrepancy could prove highly lucrative for lenders willing to stomach some of the risk. Their dollars can do a lot more work in the crypto economy than in their near-zero interest rate savings accounts, especially given inflation.
“People are being forced to search for yield,” Hougan said, and that’s prompting fund providers to innovate.
European crypto issuer 21Shares’ USD Yield ETP (USDY) and its 5% target yield is the latest iteration. Listed on the Swiss SIX exchange Wednesday, it plans to lend each invested dollar out for somewhere between $1.10 and $1.50 in bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) as collateral – a sort of insurance policy if the borrower implodes.
“So if the counterparty goes bye-bye” explained President Ophelia Snyder, ”we can just go knock on the custodian’s door and say, ‘Hey, they're gone. Give us our money back.’”
Snyder said 21Shares plans to lend investors’ assets out to BlockFi.
The risk of imploding crypto counterparties was on full display earlier this month when the algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and sister token LUNA went into a death spiral. One of the big appeals of that troubled ecosystem were the eye-catching but unsustainable yields of Terra’s Anchor protocol.
Terra’s floundering yield schemes have little in common with USDY, Snyder said. For starters, USDY takes collateral to protect its investors against a counterparty’s default. This may limit the yield generation upside but it does so in the name of “risk adjusted” returns. In her view, that’s a worthwhile tradeoff for investors getting pummeled by market forces.
“Virtually every type of financial product on the market right now is negative. Holding cash has a negative real interest rate. And that's a really important thing to realize,” she said. “This product is particularly well adapted against this backdrop.”"
99,370,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/26/bitcoin-will-find-its-footing-according-to-grayscale-ceo/,"‘Bitcoin Will Find Its Footing’ in Near Term, Says Grayscale CEO","""Market forces,” including a liquidity crunch, are contributing to the pressures on bitcoin and on GBTC, CEO Michael Sonnenshein said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.”",2022-05-26,"Amid rising interest rates in the U.S. market, asset classes across the board are seeing selling pressure, and cryptocurrencies are no exception.
What’s more, events like the collapse of terraUSD’s (UST) stablecoin could be adding to crypto’s recent pullback. However, one asset manager sees the digital currency world’s rebound coming soon.
“I think in the near term, we [crypto] will find our footing,” Grayscale Investments CEO Michael Sonnenshein said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.”
Grayscale, one of the largest players in crypto and a sister company to CoinDesk, has over $25 billion in assets under management.
Sonnenshein also noted that following the collapse of UST, one of the largest algorithmic stablecoins, all stablecoins remain a concern in the ecosystem even as they remain the backbone of crypto markets.
“Investors are focusing on items like stablecoin governance [and] supply collateral, and over time ensuring that the stablecoins they are involved with are in fact functioning the way they’re designed to do so,” he said.
Much to the detriment of its investors, tech stocks have also suffered low trading volumes and selling pressure. Since the start of 2022, bitcoin's (BTC) price has fallen by more than 35%.
Yet, Sonnenshein doesn't see the downturn lasting. Like many in the crypto asset world, he sees a potential for a future upside.
“I think that markets will continue to find their footing,” he said.
The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), Grayscale’s flagship investment vehicle that it wants to convert to an exchange-traded fund (ETF), would love to attract those investors. The company is hoping the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approves the conversion, although the SEC has yet to approve any ETF that holds actual bitcoin. GBTC is currently trading at a discount of around 30% of its net asset value.
Ultimately, Sonnenshein cites a “function of market forces,” including a liquidity crunch, that are contributing to GBTC's and bitcoin’s trading prices."
100,113,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/26/first-mover-americas-btc-dominance-reaches-7-month-highs-alts-suffer/,"First Mover Americas: BTC Dominance Reaches 7-Month Highs, Alts Suffer","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 26, 2022.",2022-05-26,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: Altcoins took a hit in price this morning, with ether dropping more than $100 in an hour.
Market Moves: Bitcoin dominance over altcoins reached a seven-month high. The last time it reached this level was in October 2021.
Feature: We take a look at data showing how USD coin (USDC) has become the stablecoin of choice on the Ethereum blockchain, not the larger tether (USDT).
Bitcoin (BTC) was down 1.7% over the last 24 hours and is struggling to hold $30,000. At press time, the world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading around $29,000.
Ethereum (ETH) took a bigger hit and was trading down 6.5% on the day, around $1,800.
“With BTC’s price not catching a bid to the upside the negativity comes out,” said Charles Storry, head of growth at Phuture, a crypto index platform.
“The narrative around BTC and crypto, in general, goes from a futuristic store of value to a scam,” said Storry. ""This brings down the price till investor sentiment changes and we move back to the upside.""
Altcoins appear to be suffering more than BTC, with Avalanche (AVAX) leading the drop in price. AVAX was down 12% on the day, Cosmos’ ATOM down by 10.5% and Solana’s SOL by 8%.
In traditional markets, Wall Street had a positive trading session overnight, but has since been mixed. Bonds gained ground as traders weighed the Fed’s minutes that were less hawkish than expected. News from China overnight sent Asian markets and European futures lower.
Despite BTC’s market capitalization declining to $552 billion, bitcoin dominance over altcoins is at a seven-month high. BTC dominance – the measure of how much of the total market cap of crypto is comprised of bitcoin – has increased to 45%, the highest the metric has gone up to since October 2021.
However, signals for BTC are still not showing signs of recovery, according to Laurent Kssis, head of Europe at Hashdex.
“We may see further downward trends in altcoins as there are still strong signs BTC is to remain below $30,000,” said Kssis, in an interview with CoinDesk.
Kssis noted that ether’s drop in price Thursday was particularly significant (ether dropped by $100 at around 9:00 UTC).
""We saw large sellers dominating the market in ether this morning which was fueled by losing interest. This is a clear absence of a bullish volatility currently witnessed in the crypto market,” said Kssis.
Binance's Bahrain License Upgraded for More Crypto Services Binance Bahrain was granted a preliminary license in December and full license in March.
Gaming DAO Merit Circle and YGG Caught in DAO Governance Strife Merit Circle members want to refund Yield Guild Games' investment and cancel an agreement between the two, claiming there’s not been enough value-add by the gaming guild giant.
Former Binance Execs Create $100M Fund to Spur Crypto Adoption in Emerging Markets: Report Old Fashion Research was formed by Ling Zhang and Wayne Fu, previously Binance's vice president of M&A and head of corporate development, respectively
Solana, Dogecoin Tokens Dip as Futures Suggests Bearish Sentiment Choppy trading in broader markets failed to temper a gradual dip in major cryptocurrencies, with some sliding as much as 8% in the past 24 hours.
After Armstrong Tweet, India's Crypto Policy Body Says No Contempt of Court Challenge vs. RBI The Coinbase CEO last month suggested the RBI's ""shadow ban"" of crypto exchanges violated a Supreme Court ruling.
Portuguese Congress Rejects Two Bills Seeking to Tax Crypto The proposals were submitted by two leftist parties. The government, which also seeks to apply taxes, hasn’t submitted a proposal so far.
By Krisztian Sandor
There has been a change in the thinking of the large crypto investors known as whales. Data shows USD coin (USDC) has become the stablecoin of choice on the Ethereum blockchain, not the larger tether (USDT).
In crypto, whales are the biggest cryptocurrency holders – institutional investors, exchanges, deep-pocketed individuals – who are capable of moving large amounts of tokens and swaying market prices. Analysts closely watch their activity to spot trends and anticipate large price movements.
Data from CoinMetrics, a blockchain analysis firm, shows wallet addresses on the Ethereum blockchain that hold more than $1 million USDC surpassed the number of wallets that hold USDT, still the largest stablecoin by market cap.
“In the current market condition, a lot of people view USDC as the safer, preferred stablecoin,"" Edward Moya, trading platform Oanda’s senior market analyst, told CoinDesk.
USDC, the second-largest stablecoin, has been gaining market share since the once-$18 billion UST stablecoin collapsed, and USDT’s peg to the dollar wobbled.
CoinMetrics looked at blockchain data since May 9, when UST lost its peg to the U.S. dollar. The firm identified 147 Ethereum wallet addresses that increased their USDC balance by at least $1 million while decreasing their USDT balance by at least $1 million. Among them, there were 23 that added at least $10 million USDC and disposed of $10 million USDT. Many of these addresses are exchanges, custodial services or decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, the report added.
The report also said USDC’s advantage over Tether's USDT in so-called free float supply – the number of tokens that investors hold – on the Ethereum blockchain hit an all-time high on Tuesday among all holder groups.
""This likely reflects the fact that only large holders are generally privileged to redeem USDT and mint new USDC to capture an arbitrage,"" Kyle Waters, analyst at CoinMetrics, wrote in the report. ""But it might also be the case that some large accounts are de-risking their holdings, turning to the perceived assurances of USDC’s monthly attestations and full-reserve backing.""
Read the full story: Crypto Whales Ditched Tether for USDC After Stablecoin Panic
Today’s newsletter was edited by Lyllah Ledesma and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher.
CORRECTION: The emailed newsletter incorrectly said ether dropped by $1,000. The price decline was $100."
101,144,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/nansen-research-debunks-single-attacker-myth-in-terras-collapse/,Nansen Research Debunks Single 'Attacker' Myth in Terra's Collapse,The TerraUSD stablecoin collapsed for one reason: big holders didn't trust it.,2022-05-27,"Friday morning, on-chain analytics firm Nansen released its in-depth report on the trading activity that led to the depegging of the stablecoin terraUSD (UST). There is an immense amount of detail to be unpacked, but Nansen’s most important conclusion is this:
“We refute the popular narrative of one ‘attacker’ or ‘hacker’ working to destabilize UST. The depeg of UST could instead have resulted from the investment decisions of several well-funded entities, e.g., to abide by risk management constraints or alternative to reduce UST allocations deposited into [lending protocol] Anchor in the context of turbulent macroeconomic and market conditions.”
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
To put that in English, Nansen concludes that terraUSD lost its one-to-one peg to the U.S. dollar because a variety of large holders felt it was too risky to keep holding the tokens. So they sold them.
Nansen identified seven wallets that were putting big selling pressure on the token, and it believes they all belong to separate actors. Nansen says one of the seven, for instance, is part of the Celsius network.
Nansen found that from May 7-11, these “whales” independently began aggressively trading their UST for USDC or other assets through the Curve liquidity pool, where Nansen said the depeg originated. (Curve is a decentralized token exchange on Ethereum.)
The Luna Foundation Guard tried to defend the peg by buying all that UST, but whales dumped so much LFG couldn’t keep up. That is, the nonprofit founded to protect UST’s $1 valuation didn't deploy enough assets to soak up all that UST. At that point, the peg started to waver as worried UST holders decided it was worth it to take 97 or 98 cents on the dollar.
From there it was all over but the shouting, because UST’s Rube Goldberg-like perpetual motion machine made it profitable to arbitrage this price imbalance in a way that widened it further. That led to a “death spiral” for UST and caused LUNA – its related “balancer token” – to hyperinflate, ultimately leaving few buyers for either.
There’s a lot more to say about the back-end nuances, but the big picture is what matters here: At the end of the day, UST collapsed because several large holders independently decided it was too risky. This shouldn’t be surprising, because after the terraUSD collapse insiders like Sam Bankman-Fried of FTX have suggested the smart money knew the token “was transparently going to falter at some point,” and were poised to bolt when waters got choppy.
And why was the smart money so primed to run for the exits? Because they looked at the fundamental structure of LUNA and UST and saw something that could never work. Any other understanding of events is pure and simple deflection – what the kids these days call “cope.”
As I wrote last week, the idea that a single malicious “attacker” or some shadowy cabal had intentionally knocked UST off its kilter basically amounts to a defense of terrible network design, implying that things would have been fine if it weren’t for the powerful enemies of the Luna(tic) Revolution. But the Nansen report shows that for the delusion it is: UST collapsed because there wasn’t enough market faith in the algorithmic stablecoin’s design and team, and that’s that.
See also: UST's Do Kwon and the Human Cost of Lunatic Hubris | Opinion
This morning, I belatedly discovered one of the most absurd pieces of UST conspiracy cope yet, one that nicely sums up the motivated thinking behind the “attack” narrative. BitBoy, a particularly suspect YouTube crypto “influencer” who has been credibly accused of taking “pay to play” payments to promote tokens, confidently declared last week that the U.S. government is “100% behind the UST depeg.”
Whether he’s self-aware about it or not, BitBoy here is delivering the perfect line to cover his own ass as a Terra promoter (LUNA’s “pump cannot be stopped,” he declared in December), as well as covering for Do Kwon and his investors. Because, boy, if the U.S. government was behind the attack, then surely there wasn’t a problem with the UST design or the team. In fact – My God! – wouldn’t that suggest LUNA/UST were so perfect and powerful that the government was desperate to strangle it in its crib?
This is the kind of lazy, fact-free conspiracy thinking that’s rotting all of our brains and lets grifters get away with stealing your money. In this case it’s particularly devilish because we’re about to see the launch of “Luna 2.0,” which skeptics have said could just be another chance for Do Kwon and his allies to work over the same people they got the first time around.
See also: Do Kwon Is the Elizabeth Holmes of Crypto | Opinion
The truth is that LUNA and terraUSD collapsed, at best, because they were built on a fundamentally flawed economic mechanism that incentivized its own collapse the moment faith wavered even slightly. Accepting that reality might not be comforting, but getting to keep your money should be."
102,373,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/how-the-us-can-establish-itself-as-a-crypto-leader/,How the US Can Establish Itself as a Crypto Leader,"Regulators have an opportunity to map out thoughtful, strategic policy on stablecoins and beyond.",2022-05-27,"The week of the terraUSD (UST) collapse was among the most painful weeks in crypto history – and one we’ll reckon with for a long time. It wrought havoc on the crypto market, resulting in billions of dollars in lost value. And while those in Washington, D.C., rightly debate next steps, a smart, thoughtful conversation around potential regulation is critical.
Stablecoins are a vital innovation, providing many benefits for users and a competitive advantage for the United States. Stablecoins improve efficiency in payments and transfers, reducing costs and accelerating settlement for businesses and consumers. They make the financial system more inclusive by offering open access to anyone, anywhere, regardless of their background or economic status. They can also advance U.S. geopolitical interests, strengthening global dollar dominance in the face of attempts by our adversaries – such as China and Russia – to undermine U.S. leadership in the financial system.
Jake Chervinsky is head of policy at the Blockchain Association.
As the name suggests, stablecoins are intended to be stable and reliable. In general, there are two broad categories of stablecoins: custodial and decentralized.
Custodial stablecoins are issued by a central administrator and backed by collateral held in a bank or other institution. They are usually fully collateralized: The issuer holds one dollar in the bank for every one dollar of stablecoins it issues. Custodial stablecoins represent the vast majority of total stablecoin volume and are very stable and reliable, provided the issuer is trustworthy and transparent.
Decentralized stablecoins are designed to address the fact that not all issuers are trustworthy or transparent. Their goal – much like the public blockchains that enable them – is to eliminate dependence on trusted intermediaries in the financial system, who often do more harm than good. They achieve that goal by producing stablecoins that seek to maintain their peg to the dollar through the operation of autonomous code rather than reliance on a central issuer. Instead of being backed by dollars in a bank, decentralized stablecoins are typically backed by other digital assets held programmatically as collateral on the blockchain.
Importantly, although custodial and decentralized stablecoins use different models, neither is fundamentally better or worse than the other. Each has unique properties – both benefits and risks – that combine to form a robust, competitive market characterized by consumer choice. We should support responsible innovation in both categories.
Read More: Secure America’s Financial Strength With Stablecoins, Not Central Banks
Unfortunately, UST was in a category of its own, relying solely on an algorithmic mechanism to maintain price stability with no collateral whatsoever, a risky model that many predicted might fail.
So, following this month’s events, how should policymakers respond?
First, as U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen indicated in congressional testimony on May 12, policymakers should follow the process set forth by President Joe Biden’s executive order (EO) earlier this year. The EO – directing federal agencies to study crypto and report on regulatory priorities and solutions – provides clear guidance on how to thoughtfully proceed on stablecoin regulation. That work is important and ongoing. With the help of input from industry stakeholders and trade groups like my employer, the Blockchain Association, policymakers should develop a strong understanding of the stablecoin space and the essential differences between various stablecoin designs. This is a necessary first step before effective regulation can be formulated.
Second, a bipartisan consensus should be developed in Congress. Immediately following UST’s collapse, Congress became entrenched on either side of the aisle over the issue. But as my colleague Kristin Smith recently wrote, crypto is too big for partisan politics. We need leaders on both sides of the aisle to come together and determine the best regulatory approach for crypto. As the President's Working Group on Financial Markets (PWG) recommended in its report on stablecoins last year, a regulatory solution must come from Congress – not from the regulatory agencies.
Third, new regulations should be adopted that are fit for the purpose. These policies must be balanced and consider the essential nature of dollar-dominated stablecoins to U.S. financial security in the coming decades. We need tailored regulatory frameworks that address the specific benefits and risks of stablecoins. For custodial stablecoins, Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) and Rep. Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.) separately proposed tailored frameworks – great examples of smart regulatory approaches from both sides of the aisle in the Senate and House of Representatives. With time, we can develop similarly well-tailored frameworks for decentralized stablecoins, too.
Stablecoins present too big an opportunity for us to risk getting them wrong as a matter of policy. The U.S. is in a competitive international race to be the home of Web 3. It’s time for strategic thought and deliberate action. The future of the U.S. as a hub of global crypto innovation hangs in the balance.
Read More: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist"
103,30,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/we-need-to-talk-about-exchanges-that-sell-you-coins-like-ust/,We Need to Talk About Exchanges That Sell You Coins Like UST,"How much responsibility should they have, legally and morally, for projects that fail spectacularly?",2022-05-27,"Happy Friday readers, David Z. Morris is filling in for Michael Casey today.
CoinDesk Editor-in-Chief Kevin Reynolds alerted me this week to a striking Linkedin post by a Coinbase (COIN) staffer. In the post, apparently now deleted, the Coinbaser wrote in part that it’s “crazy to me how much market value sits in these (probably) useless projects,” before listing a half-dozen tokens including dogecoin (DOGE), bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum classic (ETC), shiba inu (SHIB), litecoin (LTC), bitcoin SV (BSV) and bitcoin gold (BTG).
Now, plenty of people would take issue with the idea that bitcoin cash, ethereum classic or even dogecoin are “useless.” But broadly, such sentiments wouldn’t sound out of place coming from any random account on Crypto Twitter.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The catch, of course, is that here they’re coming from a Coinbase staffer – and Coinbase makes money from the trading of “useless” bitcoin cash, ethereum classic, dogecoin, shiba inu, and Litecoin.
To be clear, I think it reflects both good morals and good strategy that Coinbase staffers are opinionated on social media. In this industry, it’s a crucial way to keep up to date and test ideas. Employees putting their critical thinking skills on display is also good branding.
But the post raised a much larger point: Do crypto exchanges like Coinbase have a responsibility to customers when they choose what tokens they offer for sale? Should exchanges warn customers about projects or tokens regarded as questionable by their own staff? Or is an exchange’s role more neutral, simply listing tokens and letting customers make their own choices?
That’s a particularly pressing question in the wake of the collapse of the Luna ecosystem with the depegging of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin. There have been unsubstantiated Twitter rumors of a class action lawsuit that would target exchanges that sold the LUNA or UST tokens. That group includes many centralized custodial exchanges around the world and several in the U.S., including Kraken, Binance US, and Gemini.
Coinbase didn’t sell LUNA directly, but did offer the UST stablecoin as well as “wrapped LUNA” (wLUNA) bridged to Ethereum (for, I’m sure, perfectly sound reasons). Very much to its credit, Coinbase also does not offer trading in bitcoin SV, bitcoin gold, or dogelon mars (ELON), the other tokens the Coinbase staffer called out.
Read more: David Z. Morris - Let Terra Die
You might not think it makes much sense to sue an exchange for selling you a token that collapses – as I’ll say once more for those in the back, any cryptocurrency at all is a hugely speculative investment, and this could all go to zero tomorrow. But exchanges spent much of the past two years making Super Bowl ads promising that crypto is the future, so you can at least empathize with someone who feels ripped off.
You might expect there to be a bright-line legal or regulatory answer to this question, but it’s actually somewhat unclear. That’s partly because many of the crypto assets Coinbase offers are in a gray zone relative to securities law. So a lot of the rules regarding the responsibilities of financial intermediaries for stocks, for instance, wouldn’t straightforwardly apply to an entity performing the same role for crypto-assets.
Still, without claiming any rigorous legal implications, related securities rules are interesting to consider. For instance, it’s well known by now (I hope) that a securities broker does not have a fiduciary duty to buyers of securities. Brokers represent themselves or their broker company’s interests, not yours. A certified financial advisor (CFA) is legally supposed to be in your corner, but not a broker.
However, brokers do have a lighter duty to customers. FINRA rules say that any recommendations made by a broker must be broadly “suitable,” based largely on the customer’s risk profile. Again, this applies explicitly to securities, and the status of tokens on Coinbase is largely indeterminate, but it certainly seems like a reasonable standard.
There is a further crypto complexity to all this. I’ve been talking about brokers while Coinbase is best known not as a “broker” but as an “exchange.” Because crypto is so retail-centric, exchanges are often effectively also brokers, selling assets directly to customers.
It’s also clear that crypto exchanges have long been regarded in some sense as arbiters of project quality. It’s less true now, but for many years a token earning a listing on any exchange would celebrate it as validation. A Coinbase listing in particular almost always generated a “Coinbase bump,” or a price runup after listing.
It’s a stretch, but that certainly makes a listing sound a little bit like a broker’s “recommendation.” At least, that’s an argument a plaintiff might make in a consumer protection case. Exchanges also regularly do things like write explainer blog posts about specific tokens, or about technological concepts linked to tokens. Are those “recommendations?” (This may be one reason the Nasdaq website runs third-party news content instead of just publishing promotional materials about stocks.)
Read more: Daniel Kuhn - UST Won't Be the End of Algorithmic Stablecoins
Because of this ambiguity, crypto exchanges are perhaps uniquely exposed to customer anger over losses. It’s hard to imagine someone wanting to, say, sue the Nasdaq because Netflix (NFLX) collapsed by 75% (though now that I’ve written it, I’m certain someone will). Partly that’s because nobody buys Netflix stock from the Nasdaq, but through Fidelity or another broker. But if you bought UST in April and then watched it evaporate, you know it’s Coinbase or Kraken that have your money today.
And now we get back to the FINRA broker rules. A broker/dealer does not have a fiduciary duty to customers but must meet a lighter standard of “suitability,” a general matching of risk profile to a customer. For crypto exchanges, this seems close to a reasonable standard for responsible behavior, whenever the U.S. Congress gets around to writing some of those down.
But the case of UST would seem to challenge even this lighter standard. Can any asset be considered “suitable” for even the most frothing risk taker when any monetary finance expert could have confidently predicted its failure? When it’s the fifth version of the same experiment to fail exactly as predicted?
How about when an exchange’s landing page for a token uncritically echoes the creators’ false claims – for instance, that it’s “stable”? Or how about when the venture arm of the exchange invested in the group behind the token the exchange profited from trading before it went to zero?
Well, then you have what in the legal profession is known as an “ethical morass.” It’s just the sort of thing courts specialize in untangling."
104,14,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/27/new-terra-blockchain-expected-to-launch-on-saturday-luna-airdrop-to-follow/,"New Terra Blockchain Launch Expected Saturday, With LUNA Airdrop to Follow",The move is part of a broader plan to help revive the Terra ecosystem and its related tokens.,2022-05-27,"Terra’s new blockchain will be launched on Saturday followed by an airdrop of new LUNA tokens to users as part of a broader plan to revive the ecosystem, developers confirmed Friday.
“The community has been working around the clock to coordinate the new chain’s launch,” Terra developers said in a tweet on Friday morning. “Subject to potential change, we expect Terra to go live on May 28th, 2022 at around 06:00 AM UTC.”
A snapshot of the new blockchain, currently called ""Terra 2.0,"" took place earlier this week after the conclusion of a vote among network validators with a 65% approval rate.
Holders of LUNA and terraUSD (UST), a U.S.-dollar pegged stablecoin, are eligible to receive new LUNA tokens in a vested manner based on their previous holdings. This would, in theory, allow old holders to regain some of their lost investment value while incentivizing usage of the new blockchain.
For example, wallets with more than 1 million LUNA or UST prior to UST’s depegging from the U.S. dollar would have to wait more than a year before receiving any tokens, with a four-year vesting period thereafter. New tokens will be automatically distributed to existing user wallets.
Popular applications from the current blockchain – which will continue as ""Terra Classic"" after the launch of Terra 2.0 – are expected to migrate to the new blockchain.
Separately, a governance vote on Terra’s proposal 1747 to burn 1.388 billion UST passed on Thursday. The move reduced UST’s supply by some 11% of its current supply of 11.28 billion.
Terra’s UST tokens saw a bank run earlier this month that caused prices of the tokens to fall to as low as 7 cents. This caused a loss of trust in the Terra ecosystem among investors, with prices of LUNA tokens falling nearly 100% and Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) applications losing upward of $28 billion in locked value."
105,31,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/29/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-extends-losing-streak-new-lunas-crash-like-old-lunas-stepns-china-dilemma/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Extends Losing Streak, New LUNAs Crash Like Old LUNAs, Stepn's China Dilemma","Bitcoin was headed for a ninth-straight weekly loss, a record. Terra delivered its new LUNA ""revival"" tokens, which crashed. Stepn has plenty of company among firms making changes to accommodate Chinese data-protection laws.",2022-05-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin traded higher but was poised to notch a record ninth straight weekly loss. Prices for Terra's new LUNA tokens crashed nearly as soon as they launched.
Insights: Stepn has drawn the ire of Chinese regulators.
Technician's take: BTC's volatility could rise, especially if another price breakdown occurs.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,243
Ether (ETH): $1,805
Bitcoin heads for record ninth weekly loss
Bitcoin was poised to end the week in the red, which would extend the losing streak for the largest cryptocurrency to a record nine weeks. Until recently, bitcoin had never gone through more than six weeks in a row without a positive return, in a trading history going back to the early 2010s.
So the sentiment leans grim amid light trading on a holiday weekend in the U.S. Just in May, bitcoin has descended to about $29,400 from about $37,600.
""If it's able to break through $30K, it may make a run,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, told CoinDesk in an email. ""But if it continues to be pressured down by bearish sentiment, it could fall to its next support line around $25K.""
Price crash mars Terra's 'LUNA 2' airdrop
What was billed by the badly bruised Terra project as a ""revival"" looked more like a redux over the weekend as new LUNA tokens were issued and promptly plunged in value.
A key element of Terra's plan was to deliver new LUNA tokens to holders of the project's now vastly depreciated UST stablecoins as well as to holders of the older, existing LUNA tokens. The older tokens have now been converted into ""LUNA classic"" under the trading ticker LUNC; as of press time the market capitalization for those legacy tokens was around $700 million, down from about $40 billion fewer than two months ago.
It's not entirely clear what the LUNC tokens will be used for, though, because most Terra developers are now expected to move activity over to the newly launched replacement chain – that is, if they don't get recruited by other blockchains.
The new LUNA tokens initially traded on May 28 around $17 but tumbled soon afterward and by late Sunday were changing hands around $5.28, according to the website CoinGecko.
On Twitter, some commenters complained of being confused by it all while others vowed to immediately cash out of any and all Terra-related tokens.
(Friday's prices.)
S&P 500: 4,158 +2.4%
DJIA: 33,212 +1.7%
Nasdaq: 12,131 +3.3%
Gold: $1,853 +0.03%
Stepn has drawn the ire of Chinese regulators
What do Apple, Tesla, Didi and Stepn have in common? They’ve had run-ins with China’s regulators on how they handle data.
Stepn, which bills itself as a move-to-earn game, announced Friday that it is blacklisting players with a Chinese IP address from using the app’s GPS functionality. Within the game, players earn crypto by walking, jogging or running, which requires use of the phone’s GPS receiver to track distance. Without the ability to use this, the game and the app are now useless.
China’s Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) regulates how firms handle and process the data of Chinese nationals and has been compared in structure to the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This complements the country’s Data Security Law (DSL), which regulates the export of data, particularly what it defines as sensitive data, including location information.
As per the DSL and PIPL, exporting sensitive data isn’t banned, but by default it should be stored locally in China. Should there be a need to export said data, it would have to undergo a security assessment by the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), which regulates web-based business and would likely need to be anonymized.
Stepn said it never did business in China, and records show it's headquartered in Australia. But like the GDPR, China’s data rules are extraterritorial. Firms can be penalized if they handle data that originated in China, even if the firm is based abroad. This would be of particular concern to companies that have Chinese nationals on their team as they could face trouble when re-entering China.
Of all the firms to be hit with compliance measures around this law, Stepn is the smallest. Apple and Tesla have both built data centers in China in order to comply with these regulations.
Ridesharing app Didi found itself in a tight spot regarding compliance with these rules.
Didi is delisting from the New York Stock Exchange after Chinese regulators expressed concern with how much data was potentially being made available to other countries. In the end, authorities blocked the app from China’s app stores and prohibited new users from signing up. Didi reached a compromise with regulators by promising a Hong Kong listing after its removal from U.S. exchanges, but the company is still waiting for regulators to give it a green light to return to business as usual.
Chinese regulators’ outsized interest in Stepn stems not only because crypto is involved but because of problems that Strava, another fitness app, created.
Strava, which doesn’t have a crypto component, is the must-have social network for athletes and fitness freaks. But researchers found that Strava sits on a treasure trove of location information about its users’ movements. By harvesting data from public achievement boards, researchers were able to find social media profiles and create a “pattern of life.”
Worse, many military personnel are avid Strava users. Thus, the app’s achievement boards and heat maps have given away the locations of military bases and the presence of U.S. soldiers in locations that weren’t previously announced.
So perhaps Chinese regulators have a point. Fitness tracking apps are known to be problematic from a privacy perspective, and for Beijing the crypto angle just makes it worse.
Bitcoin Faces Resistance at $33K; Support at $22K-$25K
Bitcoin (BTC) has traded below the $33,000 resistance level last week, although price action has stabilized within a tight range. That could point to an increase in volatility, similar to what occurred earlier this month.
BTC was down by about 3% over the past week and has outperformed most alternative cryptos, which suggests a lower appetite for risk among traders. Typically, in down markets, BTC declines less than alts because of its lower risk profile.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the weekly chart is the most oversold since March 2020, which preceded a strong crypto rally. This time, however, the deterioration in long-term momentum suggests limited upside in BTC.
There is growing risk of additional breakdowns in price because of negative momentum readings based on weekly and monthly price data. If a volatile down move occurs, initial support is seen at $25,000, which is around the May 9 price low. There is additional support at the 200-week moving average, currently at $22,061, which could stabilize price action.
A more conclusive downside target would be $17,673, which is roughly 78% of the prior uptrend from March 2020 to November 2021. That price level would also result in a roughly 73% peak-to-trough decline, which could signal capitulation. Bitcoin declined by 83% from its all-time high around $19,890 during the 2018 crypto bear market.
Memorial Day weekend holiday in the U.S.
10 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 p.m. UTC): European Commission business climate (May)
10 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 p.m. UTC): European Commission consumer confidence (May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Markets Not Moving Much but Stepn Is; Co-Founder Explains the Play-to-Earn Game
Bitcoin were still stuck in a range and ether remained down after the top cryptocurrencies both lost pivotal support levels. Why is sentiment still so weak for the broader crypto markets? Urs Bernegger of SEBA Bank joined ""First Mover"" to share his crypto markets outlook. Plus, Stepn co-founder Yawn Rong explained the popular ""move-to-earn"" game.
Thoughts From Davos: The crypto industry showed up in force at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting.
Dogecoin Jumps on Elon Musk SpaceX Tweet: The Tesla CEO said merchandise for his space exploration startup could soon be bought using the meme cryptocurrency.
Ether Accounts for Almost Half of $520M Liquidations Amid Weak On-Chain Data: Traders of ether futures saw liquidations nearly double those of bitcoin in an unusual move.
Nansen Research Debunks Single 'Attacker' Myth in Terra's Collapse: The terraUSD stablecoin collapsed for one reason: Big holders didn't trust it.
Today's crypto explainer: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
Other voices: This eclipse-like event is why bitcoin could reach $100,000 by next year, says forecaster who has made prescient calls
""Currently, stablecoins are only used on crypto exchanges, not in mainstream payments systems. But it isn’t necessary to make them legal tender for them to be used for mainstream payments. The U.K. has a fast, cheap, comprehensive e-payment system to which banks are the gateways. The vast majority of payments in the U.K. use this system. Newer technologies such as PayPal can also be used for many retail purchases."" (CoinDesk columnist Frances Coppola) ... ""The week of the terraUSD (UST) collapse was among the most painful weeks in crypto history – and one we’ll reckon with for a long time. It wrought havoc on the crypto market, resulting in billions of dollars in lost value. And while those in Washington, D.C., rightly debate next steps, a smart, thoughtful conversation around potential regulation is critical."" (Blockchain Head of Policy Jake Chervinsky, for CoinDesk) ... ""The price for regular gasoline in California has already risen to more than $6 a gallon, and it is virtually impossible to find gas for under $4 anywhere else. Nationwide, prices have risen by nearly 50 cents a gallon over the last month. The war in Ukraine is the most immediate cause for the jump in prices as global refiners, tanker companies and traders shun Russian exports, forcing up to three million barrels of oil a day off the market. Energy traders have also bid up oil prices in the expectation that Western governments will impose even tougher sanctions on Russia and its energy industry. (The New York Times)"
106,64,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/01/undercollateralized-usdn-stablecoin-needs-tweaking-waves-founder-says/,"Undercollateralized USDN Stablecoin Needs Tweaking, Waves Founder Says","“We have to work on the algorithm” after several depeggings from the dollar, Sasha Ivanov said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program.",2022-06-01,"The algorithm powering the Waves protocol’s neutrino USD (USDN) stablecoin needs to be adjusted in the wake of two recent depeggings from the U.S. dollar, founder Sasha Ivanov said Wednesday.
“We have to work on the algorithm,” Ivanov said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program. “And what happens now is kind of inevitable, which is just a test of the whole system.”
USDN is dollar-based stablecoin backed by the protocol’s waves tokens, which are locked in smart contracts to mint USDN. USDN redemptions have the opposite effect, destroying the stablecoin to unlock the waves token supply. The idea is to keep USDN’s price steady at $1 per token. The risk is that there may not be enough collateral to back redemptions during a crisis, which is what happened to Terra’s UST stablecoin and luna token last month,
In April, USDN lost its $1 peg and fell to 83 cents, while the WAVES token that backs the stablecoin fell to $22 from $50 within days amid a price manipulation scare. That depegging wiped out nearly $200 million in USDN’s market capitalization. In May, USDN once again fell when UST’s collapse rippled through the stablecoin world, this time bringing USDN's price to 88 cents.
Ivanov said that “some people made a lot of money with waves crashing.”
Ivanov was asked how Waves was different from Terra, whose UST algorithmic stablecoin and luna token crashed in May, wiping out $60 billion in market value. Neutrino’s protocol has “similar mechanics” to Terra, “but (is) different,” he said, citing restrictions on how many redemptions users can get in one day.
Both projects were inspired by the Basis protocol, an algorithmic stablecoin that was ultimately shut down because of its potential use as a security, he added. (Luna founder Do Kwon appears to have tried to revive Basis at one point under a pseudonym before starting Terra, as reported by CoinDesk).
Read more: Algorithmic Stablecoins: What They Are and How They Can Go Terribly Wrong
Ivanov said a group of developers are making adjustments to USDN but emphasized that nothing at the moment has been changed. One change that is needed, he said, would be to “create an incentive for people to recapitalize USDN because guarantee incentives are not sufficient.”
Ivanov said USDN doesn’t have sufficient backing, and likened it to fractional reserve banking in traditional markets, saying that “banks have been working with fractional reserve setup for centuries and they're doing fine.”
Nonetheless, he said that “it's better to be fully backed and have over-capitalization.""
USDN was recently trading at a 1% discount to the U.S. dollar.
“This is the beginning of the process, and I think it will result in the emergence of a very stable, stablecoin,” Ivanov said.
As part of the process, Waves has released a master DeFi Revival Plan to restore user confidence and protocol functionality.
“We have developers that are trying to make the stablecoin very stable,” Ivanov said. “It’s a very natural process, and we will be better off once we have come out with some better algorithms.”"
107,377,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/01/how-to-make-money-from-the-crypto-backlash/,How to Make Money From the Crypto Backlash,Welcome to the hype-disappointment-devastation-education-conviction-hype cycle.,2022-06-01,"In the wake of a more than 50% price drawdown in major cryptocurrencies and the collapse of some huge financial experiments, public sentiment on crypto has done a predictable 180 degree turn. It happens every few years: A crypto price bubble draws in a new wave of speculators, many of them get burned after making bad bets on technology they don’t fully understand and sentiment swings hard the other way. We’ve gone from the era of Davey Day Trader doing cute things with dogecoin to surgeons in Massachusetts losing their life savings on luna.
True, blue chip tech stocks like Meta and Netflix have lost nearly as much as BTC in dollar terms over the last year, but we’ll set that to the side. The crypto backlash is here, and it’s taking extremely familiar forms. Jackson Palmer, who initially created dogecoin as a performance-art critique of crypto, is making a new round of skeptical declarations. Molly White, founder of the anti-crypto blog Web3 is going just great, is getting profiled in the Washington Post. The skeptical “Crypto Critic’s Corner” is suddenly one of the top technology podcasts in the world.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
And good for all of those largely constructive and incisive critics. Having a healthy presence of informed critical voices is a plus, not a minus, for any serious emerging tech sector. But the broader backlash is going to produce much more worrisome nonsense, including its own set of evasions and misrepresentations.
Chelsea Manning provided a sterling example in an interview published Tuesday in which she did an awkward crabwalk around the word “cryptocurrency” when describing her work for a project called Nym. Manning described herself as a “crypto skeptic,” and attempted to explain how her project that uses a blockchain to supposedly preserve privacy isn’t part of that industry. But Nym has a token … which incentivizes network maintainers … and, look folks, it’s a cryptocurrency! Chelsea Manning is helping start a cryptocurrency and that’s actually fine!
Manning is a champion of privacy and democracy, a person we should all look up to for a few reasons, and it’s heartbreaking she feels the need to do this crypto-skeptic Kabuki while taking checks from a crypto startup. The idea behind the Nym project also seems … debatable. If you’re trying to protect citizens from government surveillance, a blockchain is maybe not the place to start. Sorry.
Getting crypto-shamed by a renowned privacy advocate pitching an iffy token project? That’s the very definition of “down bad.” And the wave of smug skeptics is not going to slow anytime soon, partly because this crash has clearly found its villain and fall guy in the form of Do Kwon, whose $68 billion luna/terraUSD stablecoin pair imploded in early April like a pair of retracting testicles. I say both villain and fall guy because he’ll be remembered not because he triggered the broader market crash (He maybe kind of did.) but because he and his work embodied all the worst excesses of the various screwups, improvisers, hypebeasts and charlatans who made the crash possible.
See also: Crypto Hype Cycles and You | Opinion
In previous years, that dunk-tanker might have been Mark Karpeles of Mt. Gox or Gerald Cotten of QuadrigaCX, but this time, after crypto reached levels of public exposure it has never seen before, it’s Do Kwon. He’s going to be all over TV for months. Having such a living embodiment of egotism, venality, recklessness and stupidity standing in for “crypto” as a whole is going to make things measurably worse for the industry. (And you should absolutely be mad at him about this, in addition to everything else.)
It’s going to be a rough stretch, and nobody actually knows how rough or for how long. Many of us have seen this show before. While there are variations, the crypto retrace cycle has repeated four or five times now. Each time, the same behaviors crop up as crypto goes from mania-of-the-month to whipping boy. The good news is, the retreating tide also presents opportunities.
But the thing is, people will continue to enjoy taking investor money. Considering signals like Andreessen Horowitz’s new $4.5 billion crypto investing fund, a decent amount of capital may still be on offer even with public sentiment of crypto in the toilet. So you’ll hear a lot of squirming and doublespeak like Manning’s as people who still want that sweet, sweet crypto cash try to downplay their actual crypto activities.
Manning’s evasion is a close cousin of the all-time great in this category, the argument for “blockchain, not crypto.” This is a meaningless concept because tokens with economic value are fundamental to the design of distributed public blockchains, at least for the moment. But rhetorically, “blockchain, not crypto” is meant to signal that one wants all the cool parts of blockchain tech without the financial volatility.
“Blockchain, not crypto” has in previous downturns been a particularly attractive line for blockchain units within large corporations. Not coincidentally, one way of actually executing on the hollow premise of “enterprise blockchain” is with tightly controlled private networks, which may have some limited long-term promise but nothing remotely resembling the weird transformative implications of public blockchains. It’s a rhetorical feint, meant to trick people who sway with the breeze of shifting sentiment and don’t actually understand crypto at all.
Simply ignoring these craven contortionists is step one of thriving during a crypto winter. Another good move is to try and understand what happened. Why did Terra collapse? Why is SOL down 80% but ETH only 58%? There are actual reasons, and if you learn them now you’ll be better prepared when sentiment around crypto shifts the other direction and the next wave of impulsive swing-buyers arrives.
Another simple to-do thing but one you might not want to hear, is “stop day trading.” There is still downside out there, and no one knows where the market will bottom out. Secure whatever capital you’ve got left and shift focus elsewhere – specifically, to participating in communities, actively using products, developing skills and maybe even building something. Day trading is a sucker’s game even in boom times, but during bear markets it’s truly something to leave to the professionals. Calling yourself a “degen” on Twitter is less fun when your formerly hilarious gambling addiction has left you actually destitute.
See also: A Dictionary for Degens | Opinion
Spending this time learning is a path towards not just minimal self-respect (also, consider showering more) but actual success. Even a level 1 crypto speculator is learning a lot about the space, and at this point in the industry’s growth that knowledge will have value even during a crypto contraction. Prominent people in the industry will become a lot more accessible in the coming months as well, so you can really lay some groundwork for a future career move.
But the most important tip for surviving the crypto backlash is very simple: stick around. The sharply cyclical nature of crypto is its biggest annoyance and opportunity because it provides new entry points for the committed while regularly washing out the dilettantes. Whether you’re a new hire at a crypto company wondering if it’s time to ask Goldman Sachs for your job back or an ambitious newcomer hoping for a break, the biggest mistake you can make is taking your eye off the ball. You never know which way it’ll bounce."
108,374,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/02/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-sinks-below-30k-amid-renewed-risk-fears/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Sinks Below $30K Amid Renewed Risk Fears,"Major altcoins fared worse in Wednesday trading, reversing most gains from the U.S. holiday weekend rally; South Korea takes a harder look at crypto.",2022-06-02,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos decline.
Insights: South Korea's government is taking a harder look at cryptocurrencies.
Technician's take: Long-term momentum remains negative, capping upside moves in price.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,784 -6.2%
Ether (ETH): $1,818 -6.2%
Bitcoin and Other Cryptos Sink
Investors on Wednesday decided that bitcoin wasn't such a good deal after all – or nearly any other major cryptocurrency, for that matter.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just below $30,000, a more than 6% drop over the past 24 hours that relinquished much of the gains posted during a U.S. holiday weekend surge. Bitcoin was changing hands at over $32,000 as recently as Tuesday morning as markets responded to the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions in China and the faint possibility that the U.S. central bank might relax its monetary hawkishness much later this year.
All that good faith had faded into the mists by early Wednesday, with investors returning whole hog to the risk-aversiveness that has colored their moves for much of the past eight months. Ether was also down over 7% over the same period, trading at about $1,800. Other major cryptocurrencies sank even deeper with luna classic (LUNC), the new name for the original LUNA on the Terra protocol, falling 61% at one point. SOL and ADA both declined about 12%, while DOT was down roughly 9%.
""Bitcoin's price action today is not entirely surprising,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull, wrote to CoinDesk. ""Not only is it facing pressure from traditional markets, it has also been struggling to breach the resistance zone between $31K-$32K, resulting in a breakdown from the range it set over the weekend.""
Major stock indexes dropped with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 each closing off 0.7% as investors renewed their concerns about high inflation and the prospect of recession. Gold and the 10-year Treasury yield both rose.
At a business conference Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase CEO, and crypto skeptic, Jamie Dimon told investors and analysts the bank would be conservative with its balance sheet, and to prepare for rough economic times. Dimon said he was worried about central bank quantitative tightening and the continued fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine. “Right now, it’s kind of sunny, things are doing fine, everyone thinks the [U.S. Federal Reserve] can handle this,” Dimon said. “That hurricane is right out there, down the road, coming our way.
Bitcoin closed May, a historically strong month, well in the red, although it outpaced altcoins. That reflected investors' preference for the digital asset considered the least risky. Still, BitBull's DiPasquale was skeptical that bitcoin could turn upward quickly. ”Moving forward, bitcoin will need to see significant buying activity and a major sentiment shift for any hopes of a quick reversal,"" he wrote.
S&P 500: 4,101 -0.7%
DJIA: 32,813 -0.5%
Nasdaq: 11,994 -0.7%
Gold: $1,846 +0.5%
South Korea has been a hotbed of interest in cryptocurrencies.
That was clear less than three months ago when South Korea's two main presidential candidates were jockeying to see who could appeal to younger voters as the most crypto friendly.
But the country's lawmakers have been taking a harder look at digital assets in recent weeks, particularly after the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and the luna token that supported it. The UST implosion swept up an estimated 280,000 Korean investors.
According to a report on Tuesday by the Korean news outlet NewsPim, the South Korean government will form a Digital Assets Committee, perhaps as early as this month, specifically to oversee the digital assets market in light of the Terra debacle. The committee will provide criteria for the listing of coins by exchanges, introduce investor protections measures and monitor unfair trading.
The initiative followed widespread calls for the establishment of an entity that could function similar to regulatory agencies that protect stock market investors. That responsibility for crypto currently falls to a range of government departments and watchdogs, such as the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, the Financial Services Commission and the Ministry of Science and ICT (information and communications technology).
Calls for increased oversight of the crypto industry were raised at a National Assembly emergency seminar last week. ""We need to make exchanges play their proper role, and toward that end it is crucial for watchdogs to supervise them thoroughly,"" Rep. Sung Il-jong of the ruling People Power Party said.
How the creation of a crypto-focused committee dovetails with the proposal by Yoon Suk-yeol, the conservative candidate who won the March presidential election, ""to confiscate crypto profits gained through illegitimate means and return them to the victims"" is not clear.
Bitcoin Slips as Relief Bounce Loses Steam, Support at $27K
Bitcoin (BTC) pared earlier gains after buyers took some profits below the $33,000 resistance level. The cryptocurrency could find support, initially at $27,500 and then at $25,000.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart reached oversold levels on Monday, which preceded the current pullback in price. And on the daily chart, the RSI returned below the 50 neutral mark, indicating a temporary loss in upside momentum.
On the weekly chart, bitcoin appears to be oversold, albeit with negative momentum signals. That suggests upside could be limited beyond $35,000.
For now, BTC is roughly one week away from registering a downside exhaustion signal, which previously occurred on June 7 of last year and on Jan. 10 this year. Still, a weekly close above $30,000 is needed to confirm a bullish short-term signal.
If further breakdowns occur, secondary support is seen at $17,673.
Blockchain Fest Singapore 2022
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Opec and non OPEC ministerial meeting
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): Eurostat producer price index (MoM/YoY/April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Nansen Analyst on Role of Whales in UST De-Pegging; Will BTC Hold Above $31K?
Nansen principal research analyst Aurelie Barthere joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the firm's research suggesting multiple parties were involved in the collapse of stablecoin terraUSD (UST). Also, Waves founder and lead developer Sasha Ivanov shared his plan to revamp Waves' USDN after that stablecoin depegged twice in the past three months. Plus, Rob Frasca of Cosimo Ventures provided crypto markets insights.
Binance Labs Raises $500M Fund for Web 3, Blockchain Investments: The new fund will invest in cryptocurrency companies in three stages spanning from incubation to late-stage growth.
Polygon Increases KYC Scrutiny of Potential Investments and Grants in India: Polygon is now requiring extensive customer details for prospective partners in India as regulatory scrutiny there grows, according to a source.
Megan Kaspar: Meta-a-Porter Fashion: A pioneer in digital luxury fashion weighs in on the future of wear-to-earn and online photorealism. Kaspar is a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival starting June 9.
Crypto Banking Rules Now Due This Year From Basel Committee: The group cited recent turmoil in pushing ahead with its plans, which previously saw opposition from major lenders like JPMorgan Chase.
Binance-Supported Deal for Forbes to Go Public Via SPAC Is Called Off: Report: Binance had invested $200 million in Forbes earlier this year as part of the plan.
Why You Should Consider Pooling Support Behind DeFi’s PoolTogether: A class-action lawsuit winding through New York’s court system is frivolous and counters crypto’s core principles.
Today's crypto explainer: 5 Principles to Guide Design in the Metaverse
Other voices: The Crypto Bros Are Snapping Up Manhattan Real Estate (The New York Times)
""Shanghai formally ended its two-month citywide lockdown today, cautiously giving free rein to 2.67 million businesses from corner shops to multinational manufacturers to resume operations after the city brought its [COVID-19] outbreak under control."" (South China Morning Post) ... ""Despite the still eye-popping margins, miners are in a tough spot. Most publicly listed mining companies – including industry leaders Riot, Marathon and Core Scientific – have seen their market capitalization plummet by well over 50[%]. Both Riot and Core Scientific have missed their bullish revenue estimates and have conservatively revised their expansion plans."" (Wired) ... ""The Decoupling. The latest iteration of “hopium” for bitcoiners and crypto natives. When it finally inevitably happens, it’ll be up only for Big Crypto and down only for Big Fiat. But what it actually means is a bit funny. The Decoupling is the moment when bitcoin’s price diverges from equities and starts going up when equities go down (and vice versa). The Decoupling is the moment when bitcoin (BTC) and equities become negatively correlated to each other. Bitcoin will go to $1 million a coin and equities will spiral to zero."" (CoinDesk Research analyst George Kaloudis)"
109,375,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/03/japan-passes-landmark-stablecoin-bill-for-investor-protection-report/,Japan Passes Landmark Stablecoin Bill for Investor Protection: Report,The new legal framework will take effect in a year.,2022-06-03,"In a historic move, Japan's parliament passed a legal framework around stablecoins on Friday, providing a safety net for investors in the wake of last month's terraUSD collapse that resulted in multibillion-dollar losses, according to a Bloomberg report.
Japan is one of the first major economies to pass a law specific to stablecoins even if the legislation comes into effect in a year, the report added.
The bill provides clarity around the definition of stablecoins, which will now be considered as digital money and must be linked to the yen or another legal tender, guaranteeing holders the right to redeem them at face value.
Stablecoins can now only be issued by licensed banks, registered money transfer agents and trust companies. The bill does not address existing asset-backed or algorithmic stablecoins. However, exchanges in Japan do not list stablecoins.
Prepared by Japan's Financial Services Agency (FSA), the bill was planned in late 2021, accepted by the House in mid-March this year and has now been passed by a majority in the House of Councilors plenary session.
In the wake of the terraUSD (UST) collapse, this swift action by Japan could help restore confidence in crypto.
A stablecoin is a type of cryptocurrency whose value is tied to an outside asset, such as the U.S. dollar or gold, to stabilize the price."
110,376,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/06/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-and-other-cryptos-tick-up-in-weekend-trading/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin and Other Cryptos Tick Up in Weekend Trading,Ether and other major altcoins are slightly in the green as investors continue to look for clarity on the direction of the global economy; stablecoins face increasing scrutiny.,2022-06-06,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos trade rise slightly.
Insights: Stablecoins face increasing scrutiny.
Technician's take: Bitcoin is weighed down by resistance at $34,000 and support at $20,000-$25,000.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,377 +2.2%
Ether (ETH): $1,840 +2.5%
Bitcoin Ticks Up in Weekend Trading
Bitcoin spent another weekend well inside the same neighborhood it's been inhabiting for much of the past month.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just above $30,000, up slightly from Friday but still in the doldrums. Bitcoin has been ticking a little above and below this threshold since early May, depending on the day's events as investors nervously await clear signs about the direction of inflation and the global economy.
""BTC remains weak until it conclusively breaches the $31k to $32k range,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull, wrote to CoinDesk. ""However, we continue to see some buying below $30K that is keeping the price afloat.""
Ether, the second largest crypto by market cap, was recently changing hands just above $1,800, up slightly over the same period and well within the range it's held over the last two two weeks under $2,000. Other major cryptos were about flat, although mostly on the green side with LINK and ADA among the biggest winners, rising 5% and 3%, respectively. Trading was light as is typical on most weekends.
Cryptos' weekend holding pattern veered slightly away from equity indices, which closed down on Friday with the tech-focused Nasdaq plunging 2.4% and the S&P 500 falling 1.6%. Digital assets and stocks have correlated increasingly in recent months.
On a more upbeat note, a better-than-expected U.S. jobs report on Friday, showing that nonfarm payrolls added about 390,000 jobs in May, suggested that the economy was far from ready to fold. Analysts have been concerned that the U.S. central bank's interest rate hikes will throw the U.S. economy into recession. And in a sliver of possible good news for crypto, shares of investor savant Cathie Wood's ARK Innovation ETF, which includes crypto exchange Coinbase, have risen over 15% since the second week in May. Wood's as been a noted Bitcoin advocate.
Still, crypto traders remain bearish as evidenced by last week's downturn in the Fear & Greed Index. BitBull's DiPasquale sees a greater likelihood of Bitcoin tumbling from its current perch than breaking out. ""We are expecting some directional action in the coming week or so, as Bitcoin either breaks out of the current range or breaks down to look for a lower low,"" he wrote. ""Currently, the probability of a breakdown appears higher than a break upwards.""
S&P 500: 4,108 -1.6%
DJIA: 32,899 -1%
Nasdaq: 12,012 -2.4%
Gold: $1,852 +0.09%
Another Challenging Week for Stablecoins
First South Korea. Then Japan.
Stablecoin protocols finished another bumpy week of increased regulation and scrutiny.
The protocols that peg a digital asset to a fiat currency, commodity or a mathematical formula based on some group of assets have been on the defensive since the collapse of the TerraUSD stablecoin (UST) token in early May. Observers of stablecoins, which are supposed to be lower risk than other digital assets, anticipated the extra attention, particularly for algorithm-based stablecoins such as UST.
On Friday, Japan's parliament passed a legal framework around stablecoins to protect investors, making the country one of the first first major economies to pass a stablecoin-specific law. The legislation, which goes into effect in a year, clarifies the definition of stablecoins as digital money that must be linked to the yen or another legal tender and guarantees holders the right to redeem them at face value. The bill does not address existing asset-backed or algorithmic stablecoins.
Only licensed banks, registered money transfer agents and trust companies can now issue stablecoins, although Japanese exchanges do not list them.
The law followed less than two weeks after a report in the Korea Times that South Korean financial authorities would introduce measures to hold crypto exchanges to greater scrutiny following the implosion of UST and the LUNA token behind it. A two-day National Assembly emergency seminar to discuss the debacle, which may have victimized about 280,000 South Koreans, considered the role of exchanges and law enforcement, among other topics.
""We need to make exchanges play their proper role, and toward that end it is crucial for watchdogs to supervise them thoroughly,"" Rep. Sung Il-jong of the ruling People Power Party said. ""When exchanges violate rules, they should be held legally responsible to ensure that the market functions well without any troubles.""
The country's Financial Services Commission plans to build close ties with law enforcers ""to monitor any illegal acts in the industry and protect investors' rights,"" said its vice chair, Kim So-young.
Bitcoin Weighed Down by $34K Resistance, Support at $20K-$25K
Bitcoin (BTC) continues to face strong resistance at its 50-day moving average, which currently sits at $34,000.
The cryptocurrency has been anchored to the $30,000 price level over the past two weeks, absorbing a majority of trading volume. That could point to volatile price moves later this month.
On the daily chart, bitcoin's relative strength index (RSI) is stuck below the 50 neutral mark, which indicates slowing momentum behind the recent upswing in price. The persistent decline in momentum means BTC's six-month downtrend remains intact.
The weekly RSI is the most oversold since March 2020, which preceded an uptrend in price. This time, however, upside appears to be limited because of negative long-term momentum signals.
Still, over the short term, BTC could stabilize above the $20,000-$25,000 support zone. The 200-week moving average, currently at $22,179, is another gauge of long-term trend support.
BTC is on watch for a countertrend bullish signal, per the DeMark indicators, which could appear over the next two weeks. That could pave the way for a short-term price bounce, which would delay additional breakdowns on the chart. Upside moves could be fleeting, however, with secondary support at $17,673 providing a more stable ground for capitulation.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia TD inflation MoM/YoY (May)
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): ANZ job advertisements
9:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:40 a.m. UTC): China Caixin services PMI (May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
US Added 390K Jobs in May, but More Crypto Firms Announce Layoffs, DOJ’s First NFT Insider Trading Case
Ali Pourdad of Quantfury joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the latest crypto market moves as bitcoin traded below $30,000 and the market downturn leads to crypto industry layoffs. NFT and Web 3 attorney Moish Peltz shared insights into the U.S. Justice Department's lawsuit against ex-OpenSea product manager Nate Chastain over non-fungible token insider trading allegations. Plus, a group of tech experts are lobbying the Biden administration in Washington, D.C., against crypto. One of the signatories, David Gerard, explained the reasons behind the move.
Japan Passes Landmark Stablecoin Bill for Investor Protection: Report: The new legal framework will take effect in a year.
GameStop Reports $76.9M in Proceeds From Sales of Digital Assets in First Quarter: The company also confirmed intentions to launch its NFT marketplace in the second quarter.
Middle East Oil Producers Move Into Bitcoin Mining With Crusoe Energy Stakes: The U.S. startup – which uses flared natural gas to power bitcoin mining rigs – counts the sovereign wealth funds of Abu Dhabi and Oman as investors.
Will Crypto Markets Be Regulated Like Traditional Markets? One NFT Lawyer Weighs In: “They [consumers] should have confidence that the marketplace works, and it's not stacked against them,” said NFT and Web 3 lawyer Moish Peltz on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program.
Are Exchange Layoffs the First Sign of Crypto Winter, or Is It Already Over?: Coinbase, Gemini and other crypto exchanges are laying off employees. Things could get worse from here – but there’s reason to hope for a soft landing.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is a Satoshi? Understanding the Smallest Unit of Bitcoin
Other voices: The crypto-skeptics’ voices are getting louder
""The data signaled that the [U.S.] Federal Reserve’s initial moves to dial back its monetary support for the economy were – at least so far – not constraining business activity so much that hiring was feeling a pinch. After the strong rebound from the depths of the coronavirus lockdowns – all but 800,000 of the 22 million jobs that were lost have been recovered – the Fed has shifted its emphasis from maximum employment to its other mandate: price stability. The challenge is to apply its primary tool, a steady series of interest-rate increases, without inflicting a recession."" (The New York Times) ... “I understand that families who are struggling probably don’t care why the prices are up; they just want them to go down."" (U.S. President Joe Biden on the May jobs report) ... ""Financial advisers say some investors are interested in picking up shares of the ARKK fund at what look like bargain prices compared with the previous two years."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
111,245,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/07/morgan-stanley-sees-crypto-equivalent-of-quantitative-tightening/,Morgan Stanley Sees Crypto Equivalent of Quantitative Tightening,"The bank pointed to weakness in crypto markets, the failure of a dollar stablecoin and a reduction in leverage in decentralized finance.",2022-06-07,"Weakness in crypto markets, the failure of a dollar stablecoin and a reduction in leverage in decentralized finance (DeFi) are resulting in the “crypto equivalent of quantitative tightening,” Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a report Tuesday.
The recent collapse of stablecoin TerraUSD (UST) saw Tether (USDT) also lose its dollar peg intraday, and this caused crypto prices to drop further as some questioned the stability of the third-largest cryptocurrency, bank said.
USDT has a market cap of $73 billion and is the most heavily traded digital asset on a daily basis, the report said. More than half of all bitcoins (BTC) traded on exchanges are traded against USDT.
Investors are redeeming USDT at a record pace, the bank said. Some $10.6 billion of redemptions occurred in the last month alone, while other stablecoin issuance is not rising.
Morgan Stanley called this the “crypto equivalent of quantitative tightening, as total stablecoin market cap falls, and liquidity on decentralized exchanges and leverage on lending platforms falls even faster.”
Of the $10 billion of USDT redeemed, $5.9 billion was on the TRON blockchain, with much less on Ethereum, the note said. At $21 billion, crypto exchange Binance is the largest known owner of USDT and controls 49% of the stablecoin issued on TRON, the note added.
According to the report, Binance, FTX and Bitfinex were the three largest redeemers of USDT. Curve, a DeFi exchange, hosts over a third of USDT on DeFi platforms, and here traders were swapping USDT for other stablecoins, it added.
“Systemic spillover” risks from the crypto markets to the fiat banking system appear limited, the bank said, because the leveraged crypto companies usually borrow from each other. However, if USDT falls materially under its $1 peg, this would have a larger negative impact on crypto and risk markets.
Read more: BofA Says Crypto Winter, Contagion Risk Concerns Are Overdone"
112,250,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/07/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-dumps-below-30k-as-morgan-stanley-calls-out-liquidity-pressures/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Dumps Below $30K as Morgan Stanley Calls Out Liquidity Pressures,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 7, 2022.",2022-06-07,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off.)
Price Point: Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies were tumbling on Tuesday, quickly losing what had seemed to be a fresh burst of momentum on the prior day.
Market Moves: The Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley steps back and assesses the liquidity pressures recently hitting crypto markets, Will Canny reports.
Bitcoin (BTC) was dumping on Tuesday, just a day after a price push past $31,500 kindled hopes that recently slumping cryptocurrency prices might have hit a bottom.
""The market dynamics this Tuesday morning are a reminder that the market cannot now rally again as it did in 2020,"" Alex Kuptsikevich, senior market analyst at FxPro, wrote in an email. ""In our view, the bitcoin bear market is not over yet.""
As of press time, the largest cryptocurrency was changing hands around $29,400, down 6% in the past 24 hours.
More than $200 million worth of positions on derivative exchanges were liquidated in the past 24 hours, according to Coinglass, CoinDesk's Oliver Knight reported.
Katie Stockton, managing partner of the technical-analysis firm Fairlead Strategies, wrote in a report that ""long-term momentum remains to the downside,"" with support seen at $27,200.
Cryptocurrencies sold off broadly on Tuesday. Among the biggest losers were Solana's SOL token (-13%), Avalanche's AVAX (-13%) and Cosmos' ATOM (-9.7%).
The slide in bitcoin came as U.S. stock futures tumbled in overnight trading. There are renewed fears among investors of more central-bank monetary-policy tightening to control inflation.
Gold was higher, around $1,849 an ounce, and crude oil was holding steady at $118 a barrel.
The Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley says crypto is getting hit by shrinking liquidity, Will Canny reports for CoinDesk.
Weakness in crypto markets, the failure of a dollar stablecoin and a reduction in leverage in decentralized finance (DeFi) are resulting in the “crypto equivalent of quantitative tightening,” Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a report Tuesday.
The recent collapse of stablecoin terraUSD (UST) saw tether (USDT) also lose its dollar peg intraday, and this caused crypto prices to drop further as some questioned the stability of the third-largest cryptocurrency, the bank said.
Investors are redeeming USDT at a record pace, the bank said. Some $10.6 billion of redemptions occurred in the last month alone, while other stablecoin issuance is not rising.
“Systemic spillover” risks from the crypto markets to the fiat banking system appear limited, the bank said, because the leveraged crypto companies usually borrow from each other. However, if USDT falls materially under its $1 peg, this would have a larger negative impact on crypto and risk markets.
Link to full story: Morgan Stanley Sees Crypto Equivalent of Quantitative Tightening
Jewel Bank Approved as Bermuda's First Digital Asset Bank as Premier Burt Readies to Take Nation Into Stablecoins The Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA) issued full-bank and digital asset business licenses to Jewel, which plans to issue a USD stablecoin and other single fiat currencies.
Blockchain Network Cronos Launches Accelerator Program to Support DeFi, Gamefi Startups The Crypto.com-backed blockchain is inviting developers to apply for its 10-week startup program, which includes funding and mentorship opportunities for early-stage projects.
Investors View Polkadot as an Alternative Layer 1, Coinbase Says The market cap of Polkadot’s DOT token relative to ether has been falling since November, according to the report.
Fireblocks Deepens Payments Push With Checkout.com USDC Settlement Merchants will be able to settle transactions through USD coin with Fireblocks’ payment technology.
Lightning Network Startup Mash Raises $6M Seed Round The money will go toward advancing efforts to monetize content by creators, builders and developers on a “pay-as-you-enjoy” basis.
Binance Refutes 'Skewed' Money Laundering Claims Binance has hired senior investigators from the IRS' cybercrimes unit over the past three years to improve its crime prevention.
Argo's May Bitcoin Output Drops 25% From April Amid Teething Problems at Texas Facility Argo said the decline also reflected an increase in mining difficulty on the Bitcoin network.
Key US Senators Introduce Crypto Bill Outlining Sweeping Plan for Future Rules Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand and Cynthia Lummis release the long-awaited strategy that favors the CFTC as a watchdog and wipes away tax worries from buying things with cryptocurrencies.
BlockFi Valuation Sinks to $1B in Latest Funding Round: Report BlockFi raised $350 million at a larger valuation of $3 billion in March last year.
Bitcoin Tumbles Back Below $30K as Bullish Momentum Wanes Over $200 million in positions have been liquidated following a second sharp drop for bitcoin in seven days.
Indonesian Exchange Pintu Raises $113M to Meet Country's Crypto Boom The exchange previously raised $35 million in a Series A extension last August.
Even Giants Started Out Small: Cooperation and the Early Days of Bitcoin What the new Baylor Bitcoin study really says (and what it really doesn’t) about Satoshi and company.
The Decentralized Mystique New academic research on Bitcoin’s early years undermines its foundational myths of privacy through pseudonymity and decentralization, Jaron Lanier and Glen Weyl write.
New Research Unearths Insights Into Satoshi and Bitcoin’s Early Days The paper makes no claims about the Bitcoin network today, more than a decade after the end of the period analyzed. But it underscores well-known and longstanding privacy challenges.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
113,100,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/08/first-mover-asia-cryptos-institutional-future-may-be-incompatible-with-litecoins-privacy-protecting-features-bitcoin-falls/,First Mover Asia: Crypto’s Institutional Future May Be Incompatible With Litecoin’s Privacy Protecting Features; Bitcoin Falls,Major South Korean exchanges are delisting the token after privacy upgrades involving the MimbleWimble protocol designed to make transactions confidential and virtually untraceable.,2022-06-08,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and most major altcoins spent much of Wednesday in the red.
Insights: South Korean exchanges are delisting litecoin.
Technician's take (Editor's Note): Technician's Take is on hiatus today.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,285 -2.5%
Ether (ETH): $1,798 -0.01%
Bitcoin, Ether and Most Other Major Cryptos See Red
Home, home in the range...
Bitcoin remained close to the middle of the price range it has been occupying for much of the past month since the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and the LUNA token that supported it.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at $30,300, down roughly 2.5% over the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at about $1,800, about flat over the same period. Most other major cryptos spent much of their day in the red with DOT and AVAX recently down over 3% and SOL declining more than 2%. LINK was among the winners, rising approximately 2%.
Crypto prices, which have largely correlated to stocks, dovetailed again with major indices. The S&P 500 fell about 1%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average and tech heavy Nasdaq declined a little bit less as investors continued their watchful waiting for clearer indications on the direction of inflation and the economy.
This week's signs have been decidedly negative with the World Bank cutting its forecast for economic growth this year from 4.1% to 2.9% amid fears of stagflation – a toxic combination of slowing growth and rising prices – pessimistic inflationary comments by U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen at a Senate Finance Committee hearing, and a profit warning by Target that sent retail stock prices tumbling Tuesday. Meanwhile, the fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine continued with the price of Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of energy markets, soaring above $122, up nearly 60% since the start of the year.
Cryptos have struggled against this wider backdrop and because of brewing uncertainties in the space, including not only the Terra debacle but regulatory uncertainty and problems with other protocols.
""BTC fundamentals are intact, but without regulatory clarity, which is coming, we may stay range-bound, ""3iQ Digital Asset's Head of Research Mark Connors wrote to CoinDesk.
Connors also noted the failure of the Ethereum 2.0 migration as a testnet to occur. ""In our opinion, proof-of-stake may be a 2023 reality, so not constructive for ether,"" he wrote.
S&P 500: 4,115 -1%
DJIA: 32,910 -0.8%
Nasdaq: 12,086 -0.7%
Gold: $1,852 -0.03%
Major Korean Exchanges Are Delisting Litecoin
The last time Litecoin was relevant was when it was the subject of a fake news release about a partnership with Walmart.
But Litecoin finds itself in the news again as major Korean exchanges are delisting its LTC token because of privacy upgrades involving the MimbleWimble protocol, designed to make transactions confidential and virtually untraceable.
Korea’s largest exchanges cite the nation's law on the ""Reporting and Use of Specific Financial Transaction Information"" as the reason they need to de-list the tokens, but this isn't a Korea-specific thing. Korea's law was designed to align with the Financial Action Task Force's (FATF) travel rule, a set of anti-money laundering standards adopted by regulators and financial institutions worldwide that requires the collection of customer data around transactions. Every major economy understands this and has implemented similar rules.
Rules like this are the only reason institutions can even think about adopting crypto. For institutions, compliance is key, and they need to stay miles away from anything that even smells like money laundering.
Many major banks know what happens if they get caught: fines in the billions. HSBC, Standard Chartered and others have all been hit with mega-fines for insufficient anti-money laundering controls.
Crypto’s future is in institutional adoption, but there are certain things that just won’t work. While financial privacy is important and exists in crypto via the difficulty in identifying owners being blockchain wallets, financial anonymity is where the line is drawn. Making it impossible to track transactions ensures that institutions must separate themselves from the project and play no part in it.
Certainly there are other protocols out there that are designed to obfuscate transactions. Tornado Cash comes to mind, and is often used in the same sentence as “stolen funds.” But even Tornado Cash doesn’t completely mix anonymity with freedom to transact: Wallets sanctioned by OFAC are blocked. Experts who have previously spoken to CoinDesk have said that without this happening, OFAC would be actively targeting the protocol.
Litecoin mixing anonymity with an absence of such controls is going to be a headache for exchanges that list the LTC token. Korean exchanges are said to be particularly sensitive to regulatory affairs, so it’s natural that they would delist it first. But others are sure to follow. Perhaps Binance, battling a reputational challenge as a haven for cybercrooks, will be next?
(Editor's Note: Technician's Take is on hiatus today)
Consensus 2022 by CoinDesk
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China imports/exports (May)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China trade balance/USD (May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Back Above $30K, Crypto’s Role in Russia-Ukraine Crisis, and Meme Economy Explained
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has challenged crypto exchanges on their commitment to immutable transactions. Elementus CEO and co-founder Max Galka joined ""First Mover"" to share his take on crypto's role in the Russia-Ukraine war. Edward Moya of Oanda shared his outlook on crypto as inflation pressures weigh on investors. Plus, ""MemeAnalysis"" host Chris Gabriel explained why he thinks memes are more than an internet joke. Also, Micah Johnson, a former Major League Baseball player and speaker at Consensus 2022, shared his journey into non-fungible tokens (NFT).
Arrington Capital Launches $100M Growth Fund for Moonbeam Ecosystem: The fund, in partnership with the Moonbeam Foundation, will back new projects and protocols on the EVM-compatible Polkadot parachain.
Outgoing French Lawmaker Calls for Fossil-Based Crypto Mining Ban, DAO Legal Status: Europe needs to stop dithering and capture the crypto opportunity, Pierre Person says.
Micah Johnson: From MLB to NFT Superstar: Once of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team, Micah Johnson has built an entire universe around his character Aku, a young boy wearing an astronaut’s helmet. Trevor Noah, Pusha T and Tyra Banks are fans.
Galaxy Digital Leads $20M Funding Round in DeFi Firm Skolem: Skolem provides data and trade execution services for institutions to access decentralized finance markets.
Key US Senators Introduce Crypto Bill Outlining Sweeping Plan for Future Rules: Kirsten Gillibrand and Cynthia Lummis release the long-awaited strategy that favors the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a crypto watchdog and wipes away tax worries for purchases of less than $200.
'I Jumped in With All 4': Legendary Cryptographer David Chaum on the Future of Web 3: The DigiCash founder has been advocating for – and building – online privacy tools for decades.
Today's crypto explainer: Staked Ether Discount After Terra Collapse a Sign of Liquidity Crunch in Crypto
Other voices: Crypto meltdown is wake-up call for many, including Congress (AP)
“As we think about stablecoins and this guidance, and this is something we have been working on before the events of last month, really our goal is to accomplish those things for the stablecoin market, the safety and soundness of institutions, stability of the marketplace and consumer protection."" (NYDFS Superintendent Adrienne Harris to CoinDesk) ... ""Although the moratorium, limited as it is, will likely discourage bitcoin miners from setting up shop in the state, it could be seen as an opportunity. During the two-year freeze, active bitcoin miners and even new businesses looking to hang their shingle can proactively go green."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn). ... ""Millions of Americans are forced to ration or go without prescription drugs because of their high cost. Yet, Congress has so far failed to pass legislation to lower drug prices."" (The New York Times op-ed)"
114,248,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/citi-says-crypto-market-volatility-has-affected-user-adoption/,Citi Says Crypto Market Volatility Has Affected User Adoption,"Concerns about stablecoins following UST’s collapse have exacerbated declines in digital asset prices, the bank said.",2022-06-08,"Cryptocurrencies are notably below their peak and mounting concerns about stablecoins following the collapse of terraUSD’s (UST) has led to outflows from the largest stablecoin tether (USDT), Citibank (C) said in a report Tuesday.
These concerns have most likely compounded declines in crypto markets, the report said.
“Volatility has affected user adoption,” the Wall Street giant said, noting that trading volumes and active addresses spiked around the time of the luna (LUNC) collapse, which indicates user adoption, but these increases have since reverted to previous levels, or even lower.
According to Citi, “Tentative evidence suggests a reduction in trading volumes and futures positions but not wholesale declines in investor interest in the space.""
”After luna’s collapse, there were concerns about outflows in USDT, but these have since slowed,"" the bank said. Some flows went to the more “transparent and centralized” USD coin (USDC) stablecoin, while others exited the market altogether.
Total value locked (TVL) in decentralized finance (DeFi) has fallen in U.S. dollar terms but is stable in terms of ether (ETH), especially when accounting for the value lost in the Anchor protocol following the collapse of UST and LUNC, the note said.
DeFi is an umbrella term used for lending, trading and other financial activities carried out on a blockchain, without traditional intermediaries.
Morgan Stanley (MS) said weakness in crypto markets, the failure of a dollar stablecoin and a reduction in leverage in DeFi was resulting in the “crypto equivalent of quantitative tightening,” in a report Tuesday.
Read more: Morgan Stanley Sees Crypto Equivalent of Quantitative Tightening"
115,246,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/solana-commits-100m-to-support-south-korean-crypto-projects/,Solana Commits $100M to Support South Korean Crypto Projects,"The fund, created by Solana Ventures and the Solana Foundation, will focus on virtual gaming and will invest in NFT and DeFi projects.",2022-06-08,"Solana will pump up to $100 million into South Korean crypto startups as it looks to penetrate a developer market still reeling from last month’s Terra ecosystem collapse.
Two key players in the speedy network’s ecosystem, Solana Ventures and the Solana Foundation, will seed investments and grants “across all Web 3 verticals,” a press release said. But their emphasis will be on courting South Korea’s crypto games development sector.
The weeks-old funding effort puts Solana in direct competition with Polygon, Avalanche and other smart contract platforms all gunning for Korea’s trove of orphaned crypto developers. It’s unclear how many Terra developers will return to the ecosystem after its May implosion wiped out billions of dollars in wealth.
“It's not only due to the drastic crash” in twin tokens terraUSD and LUNA that developers are balking at Terra 2.0, said Jaemin Park, a growth manager at DeSpread. “But also people's perception that the chain has 'key person' risk, as well as doubts that if their dapps would have any meaningful user base since the fundamental community has almost evaporated.”
While the Solana funding will spread across Web 3 projects, it will have special focus on bolstering Korea-based blockchain game developers, according to Austin Federa, head of Communications for the Solana Foundation. South Korea’s gaming sector overall was valued at over $15 billion in 2021. The idea is to harness at least some of that potential for crypto games, too.
“They know how to build stuff over there. Big beautiful games. It’s really something to see,” a source formerly at Solana Labs told CoinDesk.
Solana also plans to get face time with Korea’s developer community via a hacker house planned for early August."
116,95,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/arrington-capital-launches-100m-growth-fund-for-moonbeam-ecosystem/,Arrington Capital Launches $100M Growth Fund for Moonbeam Ecosystem,"The fund, in partnership with the Moonbeam Foundation, will back new projects and protocols on the EVM-compatible Polkadot parachain.",2022-06-08,"Crypto investment firm Arrington Capital, which has more than $1.6 billion in assets under management, has partnered with the Moonbeam Foundation for a new $100 million ecosystem fund for Polkadot’s EVM-compatible Moonbeam parachain.
The Arrington Moonbeam Growth Fund will finance new companies and protocols on the Moonbeam network, aiming at a wide range of verticals, including decentralized finance (DeFi), marketplaces, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and gaming. The fund has already deployed capital to two undisclosed projects.
Moonbeam launched in January and currently has 100 projects that are either live or preparing to launch. In the first five months, Moonbeam users completed over 6.5 million transactions, and developers deployed over 5,000 smart contracts, according to the network.
As an Ethereum-compatible parachain, Moonbeam allows for secure cross-chain interoperability without using bridges. Developers can build native multichain decentralized applications (dapps) and easily port existing smart contracts across blockchains.
Arrington Capital participated in a $1.4 million funding round for Moonbeam in 2020 and a $6 million strategic capital raise last year.
“Moonbeam has gained significant momentum as a new Layer 1 protocol and provides a needed spark for the larger multichain movement, a trend which we are seeing across our portfolio,” Arrington Capital co-founder and partner Michael Arrington said in the press release.
Arrington, the founder of TechCrunch and CrunchBase, along with TechCrunch CEO Heather Harde, founded Arrington Capital in 2017. The venture capital firm also offers the flagship Arrington XRP Capital fund and the $100 million Arrington Algorand Growth Fund.
Last month, the company scrubbed a new $100 million fund from its website that was tied to the Terra yield-generating protocol Anchor, which took major losses due to the crisis-stricken USD stablecoin. Arrington told CoinDesk the removal was due to decreased demand.
Read more: Polkadot’s Moonbeam Adds Liquid Staking Giant Lido"
117,249,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/09/south-korea-investigates-terra-labs-for-alleged-bitcoin-embezzlement-following-ust-collapse-report/,Terraform Labs Probed for Alleged Bitcoin Embezzlement Following UST Collapse: Report,"South Korean authorities are investigating, saying the implosion affected about 280,000 citizens.",2022-06-09,"South Korean law enforcement agencies are investigating Do Kwon's Terraform Labs, following last month's collapse of its controversial algorithmic stablecoin, terraUSD (UST), according to a report by the Financial Times.
Terraform Labs held $3.5 billion worth of bitcoin (BTC) in its reserves in a failed attempt to stabilize the price of UST.
Daniel Shin, a co-founder of Terraform Labs, denied allegations of fraud, telling the Financial Times that there was ""no intention of deception"" and that the company wanted to innovate the payment settlement system using blockchain technology.
Last month, South Korean authorities estimated that around 280,000 of the country's citizens were affected by the collapse of UST and luna, which is now known as luna classic (LUNC).
Since the implosion of Terra's stablecoin, the company released a new LUNA token that was airdropped to previous holders. LUNA is trading at $3.12 with a market cap of $642 million.
Terraform Labs didn't immediately respond to a request for comment."
118,247,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/09/first-mover-asia-ethereums-ropsten-merge-prompts-mixed-analyst-sentiment-bitcoin-is-flat/,First Mover Asia: Ethereum’s Ropsten ‘Merge’ Prompts Mixed Analyst Sentiment; Bitcoin Is Flat,"Some observers question whether Ethereum can stay relevant after switching from a proof-of-work model, but others are upbeat about the shift to a proof-of-stake design; cryptos have a mixed day.",2022-06-09,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin remains range-bound; some altcoins outperform.
Insights: Analysts' opinions differ on the Ethereum Ropsten Merge.
Technician's take (Editor's Note): Technician's Take is on hiatus today.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,999 -0.9%
Ether (ETH): $1,782 -0.8%
Bitcoin Holds Steady; Some Altcoins Do Better
Thursday was another ""Groundhog Day"" for bitcoin.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization rose a little, dropped some but always remained firmly entrenched around the $30,000 threshold where it's been camped for much of the past five weeks as investors awaited the latest Consumer Price Index (CPI) data on Friday.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $30,000, roughly flat for the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands just below the $1,800 level, about where it was perched a day ago and for the past few weeks. Other major altcoins were mixed, with LTC off more than 3% at one point and ADA and CRO down about a percentage point. Among the winners, LINK continued its recent surge, rising over 6% at one point, while SOL was up more than 3%.
""Bitcoin continues to hover around the $30,000 level as crypto traders await a key inflation report that could sway market expectations as to what the Fed may do in September,"" Oanda Senior Analyst Americas Edward Moya wrote in an email.
The European Central Bank's (ECB) announcement that it would begin raising interest rates next month sent first major European and then U.S. indexes falling with the latter taking a last-hour dive to post their biggest decline since mid May. Technology companies suffered among the roughest batterings, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq dropping 2.7% and the tech component of the S&P 500 off about the same. The ECB announced it would hike rates a quarter of a point in July to combat inflation and that it would raise rates additionally later in the year.
The U.S. CPI is widely expected to show inflation still percolating well above 8%, its highest level in four decades. The U.S. Central Bank will likely raise interest rates another half-percentage point at its next meeting to match its most recent rate hike last month. Meanwhile energy prices continued to hover around 2022 highs with Brent crude oil, a benchmark of global energy markets, closing at about $123 per barrel, a roughly 60% increase from the start of the year.
""Inflation is hot and it will remain hot and rate hike expectations should continue to climb after each monthly inflation report,"" Moya wrote.
Cryptos suffered their own latest, mini-outbreak of bad news with separate reports that South Korean authorities are investigating TerraForm Labs for the collapse of its terraUSD stablecoin (UST), and that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was probing whether the Singapore-registered firm had violated U.S. laws in its marketing of UST and the LUNA token that supported it.
""This has been a messy several weeks for crypto filled with lawsuits, scams, and fading interest as prices have remained anchored,"" Moya wrote. ""Crypto needs a few fresh catalysts to break out of these doldrums and that could take a while.""
S&P 500: 4,017 -2.3%
DJIA: 32,272 -1.9%
Nasdaq: 11,754 -2.7%
Gold: $1,847 -0.2%
Analyst Opinion Differs on the Ethereum Ropsten Merge
Ethereum’s Ropsten public testnet underwent a “Merge” on Wednesday ahead of an eventual rollout on the main network. The move comes ahead of a much-awaited shift from the current proof-of-work (PoW) network to a proof-of-stake (PoS) design.
PoW refers to a validation model that relies on entities called miners that use computing resources to validate transactions and support a blockchain network. PoS, on the other hand, relies on network ""validators"" who lock up relevant tokens on nodes to process transactions and support the network.
PoS systems are considered more environmentally friendly than PoW and help create a cheaper and faster blockchain. A move to PoS would alleviate recurrent criticisms of Ethereum’s network, such as the network’s fees. Fees, for example, crossed over $12,000 worth of ether (ETH) per transaction earlier this year when non-fungible tokens (NFT) related to the popular Bored Ape Yacht Club ecosystem were offered to the public.
Switching the blockchain from one consensus mechanism to another is a complex change, which requires multiple tests on testnets like Ropsten before they are finally deployed on the mainnet.
Currently, the Beacon Chain is the PoS coordination chain that already has validators creating and validating new blocks in tandem with the main PoW execution chain. Once the PoS chain has been adequately tested and secured, the two chains will merge and Ethereum will continue as a PoS blockchain.
A shift to PoS will cause a shift in ether’s market dynamics. Supply would likely decline as fewer coins would likely be issued, while expected yields of over 7% to stakers would increase demand for ether.
Such forecasts have led to positive sentiment among investors, with some, like prominent billionaire technology investor Mark Cuban, stating they are “very bullish” on the asset’s future.
Market observers and developers within the crypto space remain mixed in reaction, however.
Brad Yasar, the founder of decentralized finance (DeFi) platform EQIFI, said in an email that while a shift to PoS comes with benefits, Ethereum’s PoW model was its main feature thus far.
“As much as a transition from POW to POS is seen as the next step in Ethereum's future and is expected to solve several main challenges the blockchain is facing, it is important to note that PoW was Ethereum's DNA,” Yasar said. “Newer blockchains that copied Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) and changed the validation mechanism or block structures or fees have launched since then, yet none has been able to take over Ethereum.”
Yasar stated ether’s recent price drop was partly due to “the uncertainty among the community that has been supporting Ethereum by mining on it.”
“Miners are an important segment of any PoW blockchain community that Ethereum will alienate once it is goes PoS. The long-term impact of this change can be a significant one as many supporters of Ethereum are going to leave [the blockchain] for other opportunities,” Yasar explained.
“All the benefits of lower carbon footprint, lower fees, etc., may not be enough to keep Ethereum relevant in a post-PoW world,” he added.
Others, however, remain upbeat about the Merge’s prospects, especially considering the significantly lessening of the environmental impact.
“We should not underestimate how important Ethereum’s switch from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake will be,” said Choise.com director of strategy Austin Kimm in a Telegram message. “This is just a test, but it at least means that Ethereum is on track to do what it promised.”
“Billions of complicated processing calculations will no longer be required and it is expected that this will reduce the energy consumption to negligible levels. Multiply this across literally thousands of tokens created on Ethereum and this should be a major milestone in global crypto adoption,” Kimm said, adding his firm remains “very bullish about the future of Ethereum.”
Estimates for a full rollout to PoS on the mainnet are in the final quarter of this year. A few features, such as the ability to withdraw staked ETH, however, will have to wait until after the Merge is complete, as previously reported.
Once Ethereum shifts from PoW to PoS, validators who have staked the required 32 ETH will take over the role of adding new blocks to the blockchain.
Editor's Note: Technician's Take is on hiatus today.
Consensus 2022 by CoinDesk
Release of U.S. Consumer Price Index
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China consumer price index (MoM/YoY/May)
In case you missed it, CoinDesk TV is covering the Consensus conference:
Creativity Reimagined: Web 3 and the New Creative Canvas
Web 3 is unlocking a creative renaissance, giving artists new tools to express their intent, and demanding new skill sets to succeed. At the Creator Summit at Consensus 2022, hear from artist and founder of Women and Weapons, Sara Baumann; JN Silva, artist, Animus; and Eric Friedensohn, artist at Efdot Studio. Moderator: Community builder, Andrew Wang.
Terraform Labs Probed for Alleged Bitcoin Embezzlement Following UST Collapse: Report: South Korean authorities are investigating, saying the implosion affected about 280,000 citizens.
$15M of Optimism Tokens Stolen by an Attacker After Wintermute Sent Wrong Wallet Address: The theft, which follows the OP token’s botched airdrop, sent the token’s price to new lows.
Circle’s Disparte Calls CBDCs ‘a Preposterous Idea’ in Digital Dollar Debate: The stage at Consensus 2022 erupted with an intense dispute over the future of a Fed-managed digital currency.
Bamboo Aims to Make Crypto Investing More Inviting: Its micro-investment and savings app will soon be available to U.S. users.
BGC Partners Expects to Launch Crypto Exchange by 2023 Q1: BGC Partners will launch a crypto exchange that can compete with larger competitors, CEO Howard Lutnick said at a conference Wednesday.
Neal Stephenson Coined ‘Metaverse’ in 1992. Now He’s Building One: The author is working with a number of crypto veterans on a new metaverse-focused base layer, Lamina1.
Today's crypto explainer: How to Make It in the Metaverse
Other voices: The Evolution of Money: Cryptocurrency Regulation (Washington Post)
“By working with close friends who share our values, we can make sure that we are not left vulnerable to unexpected shocks while generating economic opportunity for the people in our region."" (U.S. President Joe Biden) ... The thing that makes me most excited is, [what if] there had been a [decentralized autonomous organization] governing Facebook in 2008? To be clear, the problem with Facebook is not your family or your friends. Facebook has run experiments where all [it does] is give you more content that you consented to. That’s content from people you actually friended, pages you actually followed, groups you actually joined. When [it does] that for free, you've got less hate speech, less nudity, less violence. They're just like, 'Hey, let's trust your judgment, and give you more of what you ask for.' Not rocket science. (Facebook informer Frances Haugen in a CoinDesk Q&A) ... ""As U.S. gasoline prices approach a record average of $5 a gallon, fuel costs are rippling through almost every corner of business, with signs emerging that the rising expenses are beginning to alter consumer behavior."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
119,244,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/09/cftc-chief-behnam-sees-a-crypto-movement-brewing-in-washington/,CFTC Chairman 'Encouraged' by Bill in Congress to Give the Agency More Crypto Oversight,Rostin Behnam noted the bill would allow the CFTC to assess fees on the industry.,2022-06-09,"AUSTIN, Texas – Rostin Behnam, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), said Thursday that he is “very encouraged” that Congress is making moves to grant his agency more authority over digital asset markets.
“It’s just a positive momentum, I think, for the technology, for the industry, for the economy,” Behnam said at CoinDesk’s Consensus 2022 in Austin, Texas,. “There are unique coalitions getting together on this issue, which is very rare in Washington.”
The CFTC – typically seen as a friendlier option than the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to lead oversight of the industry – has been tackling a few policy questions, such as crypto exchange FTX’s bid to directly clear customers' derivatives, but it’s otherwise waiting for Congress to define its eventual role. That process took a major step earlier this week with the introduction of sweeping legislation from U.S. Sens. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.)
A key aspect of that effort, Behnam said, is the power it gives the CFTC to assess fees on the industry, which would pay for new staff at the agency.
“It allows us to essentially do our job,” he said. “We have to evolve with markets. We have to evolve with technology.”
The recent meltdown of TerraUSD (UST) shows the need for regulation, Behnam said, noting the “terrific fall in price” of the algorithmic stablecoin.
“It validates what has been said, what I’ve said, for the past couple of years,” he said. “We need to put guardrails around the space.”"
120,123,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/09/sec-investigating-company-behind-terrausd-stablecoin-report/,SEC Investigating Company Behind TerraUSD Stablecoin: Report,"The digital currency collapsed in dramatic fashion last month, functionally losing all of its value.",2022-06-09,"The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is looking into whether Terraform Labs – the Singapore-registered firm that created the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and luna (LUNA) token – violated U.S. laws regarding how it marketed the crypto coins, Bloomberg reported Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter.
Terra and luna functionally lost all of their value last month. Terraform tried relaunching luna, creating a new token and rebranding the original to luna classic (LUNC).
According to Bloomberg, members of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement are investigating whether investor protection rules were broken through Terraform's marketing of the tokens.
The agency was already investigating Terraform founder Do Kwon in connection with his role in building the Mirror Protocol, which allows users to trade tokens representing synthetic stocks.
Terraform Labs did not immediately return CoinDesk's request for comment. Kwon told Bloomberg that he was not aware of any SEC probes into UST and had not heard from the agency."
121,129,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/10/us-stablecoin-law-could-actually-pass-this-year-lawmakers-say/,"US Stablecoin Law Could Actually Pass This Year, Lawmakers Say","The collapse of terraUSD only added extra fuel to the fire for those saying the sector needs regulatory clarity, and fast.",2022-06-10,"AUSTIN, Texas — The U.S. could have a new federal law on stablecoins by the end of this year, lawmakers told attendees at Consensus 2022 Friday.
Lawmakers worry that a lack of regulatory clarity may be putting the brakes on crypto innovation, and the recent collapse of terraUSD (UST) only adds fuel to the fire for those calling for action.
“I'm going to go out on a limb and say we get stablecoins done this year,” Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), who put forward his own bill on the topic this year, told attendees. The audience applauded that prediction.
“We're going to need to have regulatory certainty about that,” Toomey said, citing broad consensus among lawmakers and policymakers on the need for action. “I know the [Biden] administration is interested in doing something in this space.”
While passing a bill in a matter of months is an extremely ambitious goal, especially with midterm elections coming in November, Toomey’s optimistic view appears to be shared across the aisle.
“I think we could do a stablecoin bill between now and the end of the year because it's urgent,” Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) said, although she conceded that under normal procedures generating policy ideas via multiple committees and waiting for a new law “could be a decade.”
“We just had a financial crisis, we just had a meltdown,” Gillibrand said, referring to terraUSD's implosion.
On Tuesday. Gillibrand and Sen. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), who was also on the panel at Consensus 2022, proposed a bill to resolve issues around crypto’s taxation and supervision.
Read more: Cynthia Lummis: Senator, Hodler
“We just had a disruption because there's no regulation, and it's not fair for the entire industry, to have no guidance or rules of the road from existing regulators,” Gillibrand said.
New U.S. crypto laws could potentially require stablecoin issuers to have proper reserves and disclose their holdings, reducing the likelihood of the kind of market panic that so dramatically led to terraUSD’s collapse last month.
Broader legislation on the Lummis-Gillibrand model would also seek to give issuers greater clarity over who they need to report to, settling a turf war between rival regulators, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Like any law, it would also need to pass the House of Representatives – but there, too, at least some lawmakers are optimistic that this can be pushed through.
Read more: Key US Senators Introduce Crypto Bill Outlining Sweeping Plan for Future Rules
“We're close to significant movement and in a big bipartisan way on stablecoins in the House,” Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) said.
“This summer, you'll see a bipartisan bill out of the House Financial Services Committee on asset-backed stablecoins,” McHenry said. He is the ranking Republican on the committee.
“If … we have a broad agreement on this and the chair prioritizes it, you can see that reported out of committee and voted on the House floor before the election,” he said, meaning talks with the Senate begin in November or December.
“That's a pretty fast clip from a bill introduced, to it potentially being signed into law before the end of the year,” McHenry said.
Read more: Defining Cryptocurrency Regulation Important for the Industry to Grow: Morgan Stanley"
122,23,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/10/why-terras-fall-offers-a-unique-opportunity-to-create-a-better-stablecoin-environment/,Why Terra’s Fall Offers a Unique Opportunity to Create a Better Stablecoin Environment,"The right approach, including a constructive dialogue with regulators, can restore trust in stablecoins, which are among the most revolutionary aspects of the crypto environment.",2022-06-10,"No topic in the crypto world has been more prominent in recent weeks than stablecoins. Investors, regulators and crypto service providers, among others, wonder what the future holds for them. As stablecoins have a combined market capitalization of easily over $100 billion, there’s much at stake.
Stablecoins are a cornerstone of the crypto industry. But following the recent troubles of terraUSD's (UST) stablecoin, one of the most widely used algorithmic stablecoins, trust in these assets has eroded.
Changpeng Zhao is CEO of the cryptocurrency exchange Binance, which offers a stablecoin. Zhao is a speaker at Consensus 2022.
The effects of UST's depegging from the U.S. dollar have been reported widely, but a vast amount of misinformation is circulating.
Stablecoins have been among the most revolutionary aspects of the crypto ecosystem. They’ve empowered the unbanked and created a semistable space in an incredibly volatile industry. Stablecoins have also established common ground between central banks, regulators and decentralized players.
Nevertheless, we need to stay grounded. Through informed decision-making, users can reduce their exposure to the wild risks seen with Terra. So while the current atmosphere may seem hostile, we have a unique opportunity to show the world that secure, regulated stablecoins exist.
Stablecoins are incredibly important in the crypto ecosystem. Whether you're a simple ""HODLer"" investing spare change or a veteran trader, you can find a need for stablecoins.
For many in the crypto world, remembering a time without stablecoins is difficult. Creating a successful way to maintain stable value without off-ramping into fiat was revolutionary. Exiting a position into fiat currency can take days and increase costs. With this in mind, keeping value stable and on-chain in a trusted way can hugely improve liquidity.
Read More: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
Stablecoins also bring vital financial services to the unbanked and sufferers of rampant inflation. Rising consumer costs must no longer devour your savings when you can maintain their value with a reputable stablecoin. Closely related are remittances, as family and friends can cheaply and almost instantly transfer money globally with a stablecoin.
I've often encountered the mindset that stablecoins offer a crypto panacea. The top 10 coins and tokens by market capitalization have always maintained a significant stablecoin presence. They've even provided ways to earn tempting, high annual percentage yields (APYs) in the crypto world with a stable asset. It almost sounds too good to be true.
But as we've seen with Terra, the house of cards can quickly collapse. The benefits of stablecoins are immense, but they can be doomed to fail without responsible, regulated mechanisms to support them. To me, there are several issues at play here, and they don't all involve the stablecoin issuer.
First, I want to discuss a crucial point many people don't understand: Not all stablecoins operate with the same principles.
Most large stablecoins available are reserves-based. Some coins, like Binance USD (BUSD), maintain cash reserves that are periodically attested, regulated and guaranteed. Others hold various assets, including commercial paper, bonds and crypto. Even within this category, the ratio of reserves to issued coins can be a contentious topic.
For full stability, a reserve level of 100% should also be maintained. Of all available options, reserves-backed stablecoins typically provide the most user security.
Another commonly used model is algorithmic-based. You'll likely have heard the term recently, as this was terraUSD's (UST) operating model. These coins have little or no collateral backing and use algorithms to incentivize investor behavior. By affecting market demand and supply, an algorithmic stablecoin attempts to maintain its peg.
Terra, for example, tried to peg each coin to the U.S. dollar by being transferable at a 1:1 rate with $1 of LUNA. Converting 1 UST to $1 of LUNA and vice versa would burn the coin you provided, effectively manipulating supply.
Even with the brief description, the cracks are already visible. Pegging to the U.S. dollar through a seigniorage mechanism with your own token is a dangerous position. Acting like a central bank may look tempting, but we already know the limits their real-life counterparts have.
Many people in the crypto industry understood the Terra model’s limitations even before the protocol’s crash. Now Terra’s vulnerabilities are more widely known.
Terra printing money like the Federal Reserve didn't create value; it diluted it for existing holders. Having a small number of reserves also made repegging the stablecoin difficult at best. Also, tempting 20% APY returns on Anchor staking incentivized demand for a stablecoin that had little backing in value.
So with these flaws visible, why was everyone jumping on the Terra train? Consider the following reasons. There was a general misunderstanding. I often wonder if many Terra investors understood what was maintaining its peg and generating such high APYs. As with any investment, you should always fully understand what you're investing in and how it works. To me, education plays a huge role in ensuring this never happens again.
Investors dreamed of creating quick monetary value. Some crypto enthusiasts have critiqued the traditional central bank model and derided it for its inflationary practices. However, when given a chance to operate like a central bank themselves, the blockchain community forgot the lessons from years of economic history, leading to an unsustainable tokenomic model with flawed incentives.
The community overlooked the importance of regulation. While many crypto enthusiasts see regulation as a foe, it can actually be a friend. To me, the recent Terra situation shows how unregulated stablecoins can dramatically fail without regulation.
The regulatory process is not perfect and must change. The relationship between regulators and stablecoin issuers must develop and grow.
An existential fear of stablecoins?
A number of media pundits have inferred that central banks, governments and regulators view digital assets pegged to fiat as an existential threat. This is a misperception. The security of these institutions’ national fiat currencies and sovereignty isn’t at risk. However, this sentiment may have led to a scramble to create central bank digital currencies (CBDC), heightened fears about stablecoins and pushed stablecoin projects out of the market.
Much of this fear is, however, misguided. Not all stablecoins are created equal, and many provide a superior experience through sound reserves, oversight and attestations. A 100% reserve-backed stablecoin is easier for a regulator to stomach than an algorithmic one creating dollar value out of nothing.
As much as regulators may worry about the outcome, the reality is that properly managed stablecoins currently aren't a threat to financial stability.
Read More: The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto
The crypto community must be willing to engage with regulators, educate them and demonstrate responsible stablecoin models to foster a better understanding. We must also be mindful of regulators’ concerns and learn from their years of financial experience.
As an industry, we can begin to ease regulatory concerns by encouraging a broader debate. While financial stability is essential, it's not the only factor at play here. Greater consumer choice, competition and innovation will improve the stablecoin experience for all stakeholders.
With innovation and competition come new players in the market, but a natural aversion to change can leave regulators reluctant to work with new market entrants. So far, we've seen an approach that tends to prioritize those legacy winners deemed “too big to fail.” This has led to the protection of incumbents in the name of stability. Often, newcomers provide a broader perspective on various topics that regulators have in their sights, including financial crime, financial stability, market integrity and consumer protection.
So what's the ideal situation for a stablecoin? As we already covered, the most reliable stablecoin is fiat-backed. Taking this further, reserves should back the issued asset 100%, be attestable and maintained in cash or cash equivalents. Finally, we can't forget the role of regulators in ensuring these assets maintain high financial standards and provide appropriate backing.
USDP from Paxos is one example that meets all our criteria. It holds monthly attestations of its reserves and guarantees users can always switch between USDP and USD at a 1:1 rate. USDP also has a regulated status through the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS).
To ensure we provided the same safeguards with BUSD, we chose Paxos as our issuance partner. This cooperation provides BUSD holders with the same benefits USDP offers:
A 1:1 secure and compliant USD-backed stablecoin regulated by the NYDFS.
Actual cash and cash equivalent reserves consisting of 96% cash and 4% U.S. Treasury bills.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-insurance. If BUSD is compromised, the reserves are insured and safe. Users don't need to worry about losing any value on their BUSD holdings.
Monthly attestation of the reserves. These reports independently verify the entire BUSD token supply is backed by fiat in U.S. banks held and managed by Paxos.
Read More: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
Terra's situation has profoundly affected the crypto industry in value, trust and reputation. Nevertheless, there is a great opportunity to build back stronger. During the current correction, we have time to develop real applications as a basis for solid growth rather than high APY pipe dreams.
Regulators are even keener to further their dialogue with stablecoin issuers. In a way, the market has separated exceptional from lesser models. We can be thankful for that.
Crypto has developed at such a rapid speed that regulation is still fragmented and lacks harmonization. The situation constantly evolves, and so does our approach to meeting all new requirements.
When it comes to stablecoins, we're proud to lead the way in regulation through BUSD. We're also happy to show the whole industry how they can responsibly issue stablecoins. The recent crash and Terra situation have created an opportunity for us all to cooperate, learn and educate one another. Let's not miss this chance to nurture true stablecoins that regulators and users can rely on and deserve.
Read More: Terra Snapshot Expected This Week. Here’s How 'New' Luna Will Be Distributed"
123,251,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/10/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-slips-below-30k-as-inflation-hits-new-four-decade-high/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Slips Below $30K as Inflation Hits New Four-Decade High,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 10, 2022.",2022-06-10,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off.)
Price point: Bitcoin fell below $30,000 after May inflation unexpectedly rose to 8.6%, Helene Braun reports.
Market Moves: Some crypto traders are still getting wiped out – ""rekt"" as it were – from margin calls on Terra-related tokens, including luna classic (LUNC) as well as the newly issued LUNA replacement tokens, Shaurya Malwa reports.
By Helene Braun
The consumer price index (CPI), the most widely tracked benchmark for inflation, rose 8.6% on a year-over-year basis in May, topping expectations that it would decline to 8.2% from April's 8.3%. The core CPI – which strips out food and energy costs – rose 6% year-over-year in May, dipping from April's 6.2%, but more than expectations for a 5.9% increase.
On a monthly basis, the CPI rose 1% in May, ahead of expectations for a gain of 0.7%, and more than tripling April's 0.3% advance. The core rate rose 0.6% in May, flat from April, but higher than expectations for an 0.5% increase.
The unexpected fresh four-decade high of 8.6% in headline inflation is problematic for monetary policymakers who are in the middle of a rate hike cycle, but may have been eyeing a pause at some point later this year. Now the question may be whether the Federal Reserve needs to raise rates by 75 basis points per meeting, rather than the planned 50 basis points.
Bitcoin (BTC) – which along with nearly all assets has taken a major hit as central banks in Western countries have begun tightening monetary policy over the past few months – dipped to $29,500 from $30,000 in the minutes after the report. It remains off by about 65% from its all-time high hit last November.
Link to full story: Inflation Unexpectedly Reaccelerated to 8.6% in May, Hitting a Fresh Four-Decade High
Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments - by Shaurya Malwa
Tokens related to the Terra ecosystem saw volatile trading in the past 24 hours amid legal developments against issuing company Terraform Labs, data shows.
The price of luna (LUNA) gained as much as 30% from $2.65 on Thursday to $3.44 on Friday morning, and then fell steeply even as the broader crypto market remained flat. Luna classic (LUNC) gained as much as 34% before sliding Friday morning, data from CoinGecko shows.
Such volatility arose amid reports of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigating whether Terraform Labs violated U.S. laws regarding how it marketed its tokens.
Futures tracking the two tokens saw nearly $18 million in liquidations while losses on futures of other major cryptos apart from bitcoin and ether remained under the $3 million mark.
The LUNA was issued to holders in late May following the depeg of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) in early May – a move that saw the value of old Luna (now rebranded as LUNC) fall as much as 99.7%. Value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) apps in the Terra ecosystem fell by $28 billion in addition, as reported.
The liquidations marked the highest losses for traders of the new LUNA tokens so far, data shows, with nearly $5 million in losses. LUNC futures, however, saw higher losses at over $12 million, suggesting retail traders continue to prefer LUNC trading over LUNA.
Link to full story: Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments
Circle Agrees to Buy Web 3 Infrastructure Platform Cybavo Circle will invest in research and development related to Cybavo whilst leveraging its development services.
Hop Protocol Airdrops Over 20M Governance Tokens The Hop Protocol airdrop is currently worth around $3.5 million with 37% of users claiming their tokens.
Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments Futures tracking the two tokens racked up nearly $18 million in liquidations over the past day in a higher-than-usual move.
Digital Payments Firm Flexa to Buy Drop Party to Engage With Customers Drop Party uses merchandise drops to connect brands and consumers.
Dragonfly’s Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Bear Market Crypto’s most successful projects have historically been built during downcycles.
Osmosis to Cover Possible $5M Exploit Loss; Chain to Remain Halted for 2 Days The cause of the liquidity pool exploit has been identified and a new blockchain update will be pushed in at least 48 hours.
Fidelity’s Abigail Johnson Reaffirms Crypto Commitment in Bear Market “This is my third crypto winter,"" the U.S. brokerage CEO said at Consensus 2022, looking back on the firm’s trailblazing journey into digital assets.
Grayscale, Bitwise Confident a Spot Bitcoin ETF Will Be Approved Soon Bitwise’s chief investment officer, Matt Hougan, pointed to a progression of approval decisions by the SEC that “ends in a spot bitcoin ETF.”
Today’s newsletter was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
124,15,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/10/terras-luna-luna-classic-tokens-see-volatile-trading-amid-new-developments/,"Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments",Futures tracking the two tokens racked up nearly $18 million in liquidations over the past day in a higher-than-usual move.,2022-06-10,"Tokens related to the Terra ecosystem saw volatile trading in the past 24 hours amid legal developments against issuing company Terraform Labs, data shows.
The prices of luna (LUNA) gained as much as 30% – from $2.65 Thursday to $3.44 Friday morning – then fell steeply even as the broader crypto market remained flat. Luna classic (LUNC) gained as much as 34% before sliding this morning, data from CoinGecko shows.
Such volatility arose amid reports of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigating whether Terraform Labs violated U.S. laws regarding how it marketed its ecosystem tokens.
Futures tracking the two tokens saw nearly $18 million in liquidations while losses on futures of other major cryptos, apart from bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), remained under the $3 million mark.
The LUNA was issued to holders in late May following the depegging from the U.S. dollar of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) in early May – a move that saw the value of what had been luna (now rebranded as LUNC) fall as much as 99.7%. Value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) apps in the Terra ecosystem fell by $28 billion in addition, as reported.
The liquidations marked the highest losses for traders of the new LUNA tokens so far, data shows, with nearly $5 million in losses. However, LUNC futures saw higher losses at over $12 million, suggesting retail traders are continuing to prefer LUNC trading over LUNA.
Crypto firms Bybit and Binance are currently the only exchanges to offer LUNA futures to traders, while OKX and Huobi offer LUNC futures. OKX, popular in Asia, saw over $9 million in liquidations alone, the highest among its counterparts.
LUNA trades over $3.06 at writing time. LUNC trades just over $0.00007647, with gains falling to 7% for traders in the past 24 hours."
125,61,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/13/trons-stablecoin-peg-to-dollar-wobbles-justin-sun-swears-to-deploy-2b-to-prop-up/,Tron’s Stablecoin Peg to Dollar Wobbles; Justin Sun Swears to Deploy $2B to Prop Up,Decentralized USD (USDD) fell to as low as 91 cents on crypto exchanges early Monday and was changing hands around 99 cents at press time.,2022-06-13,"The Tron network’s stablecoin, USDD, lost its peg to the U.S. dollar on Monday, dipping to as low as 91 cents, as crypto markets nosedived as investors grew increasingly concerned about persistently high inflation, tightening financial conditions and a potential recession.
Tron founder Justin Sun tweeted Monday that the funding rate on the Binance exchange for betting against, or ""shorting,"" the Tron blockchain's native TRX token stood at negative 500%, a whopping rate that suggests many investors are clamoring to get into that trade. According to Sun, TronDAO “will deploy $2 billion to fight them.”
TronDAO said in a tweet that it added $650 million of USDC to its reserve.
Decentralized USD (USDD) is an algorithmic stablecoin on Tron, a multipurpose smart contract blockchain, which is supposed to keep a one-to-one exchange rate to the U.S. dollar. It relies on an elaborate, automated balancing mechanism that involves alternately creating and destroying units of USDD and TRX.
It is also collateralized by holding cryptocurrencies, such as TRX, bitcoin (BTC) and other stablecoins, including Tether's USDT and Circle's USDC, in a standby fund known as the TronDAO reserve.
Its design is eerily similar to Terra’s stablecoin, UST, which lost its price peg and eventually imploded a month ago, wiping out $40 billion in market value.
Read more: 'Revolution' Promised by Tron's Justin Sun Looks Like Clone of Terra's Algorithmic Stablecoin
Cryptocurrencies dropped sharply on Monday as Celsius, a crypto lender, announced that it suspended all withdrawals and transactions to prevent a run on deposits. It is the latest sign of a liquidity crisis in crypto, driven by a worsening economic environment around the globe and central banks hiking interest rates and draining excess liquidity from the financial system in an attempt to fight persistently high inflation.
USDD fell to as low as 91 cents Monday morning on the crypto exchange KuCoin, indicating a 9% drop from its supposed peg, according to TradingView.
According to the official TronDAO website, USDD’s collateral stands at $2 billion, while USDD’s supply in circulation is $723 million, suggesting that it holds enough capital to prop up the stablecoin by using reserves to buy USDD.
At press time, USDD was changing hands around 99 cents but still had not recovered its dollar peg. TRX, the twin token of the stablecoin, dropped 17% in the last 24 hours."
126,17,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/13/binanceus-accused-of-misleading-investors-in-class-action-lawsuit-over-terra/,Binance.US Accused of Misleading Investors in Class-Action Lawsuit Over Terra,"More than 2,000 investors are a part of the class-action lawsuit.",2022-06-13,"“Those of you waiting for the earth to become unstable – I'm afraid you will be waiting until the age of men expires.”
These confident words tweeted by Terra blockchain founder Do Kwon sought to convince crypto investors to put their trust (and money) into terraUSD (UST), a stablecoin that Kwon promised would always stay priced at exactly $1. Unfortunately, Kwon’s confidence was not enough to save UST and the rest of Terra as his entire project dropped to zero.
Now, over 2,000 Terra investors say false marketing is what caused them to lose their money.
In a class-action lawsuit filed Monday in The United States District Court for the Northern District of California, centralized cryptocurrency exchange Binance.US has been accused of misleading investors surrounding the Terra blockchain ecosystem.
The suit marks the first major U.S.-based court filing relating to Terra, whose UST and LUNC tokens wiped out around $40 billion in investor funds when they crashed to pennies last month.
The suit, which was filled by U.S.-based law firm Roche Freedman LLP, alleges that Binance.US marketed Terra’s dollar-based UST as more stable than it actually was. According to the suit, when UST and its sister token luna classic (LUNC) crashed to zero in May, thousands of unsuspecting retail investors were caught completely off guard. Misleading advertising is what the suit says is to blame for those losses.
The lawsuit also alleges that Binance.US is not registered as a broker-deal or an exchange, which may be in violation of securities law after it listed what might be an unregistered security in UST.
The suit is also aimed at Binance.US CEO Brian Shroder.
In a statement provided to CoinDesk, Kyle Roche, one of Roche Freedman's founding partners, said “Binance U.S. recklessly listed and promoted UST as a ‘safe’ stablecoin to those seeking to avoid the volatility of other cryptocurrencies. They, as well as other exchanges that listed UST, should be held accountable.""
Binance.US disputes the allegations made in the lawsuit. ""Binance.US is registered by FinCEN and adheres to all applicable regulations. These assertions are without merit and we will defend ourselves vigorously,"" the company said in a statement to CoinDesk.
While a successful suit would send chills down the spines of some decentralized finance (DeFi) founders and centralized exchange CEOs, it would embolden DeFi advocates who think decentralized tools for participating in crypto finance – rather than centralized exchanges – are necessary to avoid government censorship and burdensome regulations moving forward.
Along with seasoned big-money backers like Hashed and Jump Crypto, the Terra collapse drained the wallets of thousands of unsuspecting retail investors. In the days following Terra’s decline, its largest Reddit forum was filled with accounts of suicides (and above them, extensive resources on how those struggling could find help).
The forum also featured criticism of Terra’s highly vocal co-founder – Do Kwon. Kwon, according to some Terra watchers, is primarily to blame for hyping up the promise that UST would always sit safely at $1. Just as he was making brash assurances around the security of UST, Kwon was building a system that onlookers like Kevin Zhou of crypto hedge fund Galois Capital said was built to fail.
Upon these questionable foundations, Kwon nonetheless promoted the safety of UST (and its luna sister token) ceaselessly across social media – loudly dismissing critics like Zhou. Even as UST first began to wobble off of its $1 peg (just a few days before it ultimately crashed), Kwon tweeted “Anon, you could listen to CT influensooors about UST depegging for the 69th time, Or you could remember they’re all now poor, and go for a run instead.”
Deriding critics with adjectives like “poor” was not out of character for Kwon, but the founder was unusually silent for several days as his ecosystem eventually cratered.
The question now is whether Kwon or his company will ultimately join Binance.US in facing potential legal penalties for their role in promoting Terra.
A government panel is already awaiting Kwon in his native South Korea, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has been nipping at Terraform Labs’ heels for years. Kwon has reportedly been living in Singapore for the last several months, but today’s lawsuit adds to the evidence that Kwon will soon face legal battles around the world.
Even so, Kwon’s Terraform Labs – which held a central role in creating the Terra ecosystem – has yet to face a class-action lawsuit like this one.
Apparently, it won’t have to wait for long.
According to FatMan – a member of the Terra Research Forum and a vocal critic of Terra with a large Twitter following – a suit against Terraform Labs is also coming, and it is likely to look similar to this one.
FatMan helped orchestrate Monday’s suit by organizing a group of 2,000 aggrieved Terra investors who allege they were misled by a number of entities.
FatMan told CoinDesk: ""We will begin by filing mass arbitrations & class actions against the various exchanges. I will be helping them with some outreach (connecting to victims) but I have no real special role in the exchange suits. Then soon after we will file against TFL/Jump.""
On the Binance.US suit, they added: ""Centralized exchanges have become highly accessible to the general public – even my parents use them – and as such, it is virtually a moral imperative for them to uphold a high standard of truth and risk disclosure. Telling people an asset is fiat-backed when it is not is fraudulent.
""Telling people a coin is 1:1 pegged to the US dollar and selling it alongside USDC and USDT without the relevant risk disclosures is scummy. People were roped in with siren calls of 'safe, stable yields' - but no attempt to help them actually understand what they were buying was made. This is morally unconscionable, and, in my opinion, it should be illegal.""
Should the suit succeed, it will prove monumental in defining the legal status of DeFi, which has thus far avoided clear regulations or heavy government oversight.
Moreover, the fact that today’s suit seeks to hold a centralized exchange culpable for a token’s advertising – rather than the organization that launched it – will hold wide implications for the shape of DeFi moving forward. It may portend a world where centralized exchanges are forced to more closely vet the tokens they support on their platforms.
Read more: Why Terra’s Fall Offers a Unique Opportunity to Create a Better Stablecoin Environment
CORRECTION (June 13, 10:20 UTC): Corrects 10th paragraph under ""The Terra crash"" sub-header to say FatMan organized Terra investors against various entities, not just Binance.US.
UPDATE (June 13, 16:26 UTC): Adds statement from Binance.US.
UPDATE (June 13, 17:45 UTC): Adds statement from Kyle Roche"
127,256,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/14/consensus-2022-was-the-crypto-bull-markets-goodbye-party/,Consensus 2022 Was the Crypto Bull Market's Goodbye Party,Subtitle not found,2022-06-14,"The first flurries of crypto winter fell before Consensus 2022.
Just a few weeks before 20,000 people descended on Austin, Texas, for CoinDesk’s annual festival, the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin collapsed, wiping over $80 billion from the total crypto market cap and triggering a wave of sell-offs. Coinbase slammed the brakes on hiring and announced it would be rescinding already-accepted job offers – despite earlier promises the Nasdaq-listed exchange would do no such thing.
Despite the growing chill in the markets – or perhaps because of them – Consensus was a blowout.
For four days, conference-goers ate, drank and were merry. They traversed the city on scooters in the Texas heat, bouncing between networking sessions and hackathons in various hotels to sessions in the Austin Convention Center (ACC), featuring some of the biggest names in crypto and culture including whistleblower Edward Snowden, FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried and rapper 2 Chainz.
Attendees eagerly collected DESK, CoinDesk’s social token, and used it to pay for tacos and barbecue from food trucks or Consensus-branded merchandise. At night, they swapped DESK for drink tokens at Consensus-affiliated after-parties, like the one headlined by electronic music duo Disclosure.
Consensus-adjacent events including the Helium House ATX, sponsored by the rapidly-expanding Helium protocol, also thrived. Catered dinners and parties sponsored by companies such as Binance drew large crowds, and industry insiders rubbed elbows with regulators and investors at invite-only events, like lobbying group Coin Center’s annual dinner.
In hindsight, Coin Center’s (seed oil-free, naturally) dinner seems more akin to a Last Supper, and its theme – inspired by the “This is Fine” meme, in which a dog in a tiny hat sips coffee in a burning room – feels prescient.
On Sunday morning, Consensus 2022 wrapped up with a well-attended interview between CoinDesk’s Emily Parker and Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao. Zhao’s proclamations of having a “healthy war chest” to weather the coming crypto winter were met with cheers from the audience.
Later that evening, crypto lending service Celsius halted its withdrawals and other products, sending the markets into a panic. On Monday, the price of bitcoin (BTC) plummeted, going as low as $20,834 in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Later on Tuesday, Coinbase announced mass layoffs, slashing nearly 20% of its workforce and leaving approximately 1,100 people without jobs.
As the flurries of crypto winter turned into a blizzard, Consensus offered attendees a brief shelter from the storm, a warm hearth to gather around and meet friends, tell stories and plan for the future.
The WAGMI (“we’re all going to make it”) optimism of the bull market is fading fast, but, hey – at least we had fun in Austin.
CoinDesk’s social token, DESK, made its debut as a full-fledged blockchain token at this year’s Consensus.
The beta version used at last year’s virtual Consensus – which could be obtained by visiting various sessions and exchanged for CoinDesk merch and non-fungible tokens (NFT) – was enormously popular, and developed a fanbase that named themselves “Piranhas” for their insatiable hunger for DESK.
To appease the Piranhas in Austin, CoinDesk made DESK bigger than ever, bringing it from the experimental environment of Ethereum’s testnet to Polygon, a live blockchain, and offering in-person events to teach attendees how to redeem and use their DESK.
DESK could be obtained by scanning QR codes posted around the conference, or completing quests given on the DESK Discord server, such as taking selfies in various places or shooting hoops at the Sport Court.
Over 20% of Consensus attendees used DESK during the festival, collectively spending approximately 200,000 tokens on food, drinks and merch. Dozens of helpful volunteers in bright yellow DESK T-shirts swarmed the convention center, offering help to confused attendees.
It wasn’t all sunshine and rainbows, though: Some would-be DESK Piranhas got greedy, tearing down QR code stickers from signs in an attempt to redeem more than their share and prevent others from getting DESK. Scammers printed fake “DESK multiplier” QR codes and stuck them to DESK posters, hoping to scam DESK users out of the contents of their wallets.
Turns out that even if it’s just DESK, the old crypto adage of “Do Your Own Research” still applies.
Consensus has always been an occasion for gimmicky spectacle – the 2018 event, which attracted roughly 8,000 attendees, famously featured several Lamborghinis that were parked out front of the conference.
In Austin, however, the Lambos were absent, replaced with even more expensive McLarens. One, wrapped in a pattern of hundreds of overlapping DOGE Shiba inu faces, attracted a large crowd when its owner, crypto influencer Julia Love, parked it in front of the Hilton.
The demo of “Crypto: the Musical” on June 10 was also a spectacle. The brainchild of Amanda Cassatt, CEO of crypto marketing firm Serotonin, the would-be Broadway show aims to tell the story of “one woman’s journey fleeing the corporate world to join a crypto startup.”
The aspiring theatrical project’s creative team (who also produced “Ratatouille: the TikTok Musical”) and performers serenaded the audience with two songs from the show, including one about the Howey Test – a framework created by the U.S. Supreme Court to determine whether transactions qualify as securities.
Consensus 2022 also featured the first MetaGala, a black-tie event where crypto investors, influencers and artists came together to drink (cocktails had themed names, such as the Metarita, the Meta Mule and the Meta Spritz), dance and raise money for several charities.
Though this year’s Consensus was the first held in Austin after years in New York or virtually because of COVID-19, the Texas capital turned out to be a perfect fit for the festival.
The spirit of Austin meshed well with crypto, and Consensus attendees embraced the entertainment and culture the city had to offer.
When they weren’t buying food with DESK, attendees ate at famous local restaurants including the Texas Chili Parlor and Franklin’s Barbecue, they went to drag queen brunches on 4th Street, and they cooled off at Barton Springs – a spring-fed pool in Zilker Park beloved by locals for its notoriously cold water.
On the final day of the conference, Austin Mayor Steve Adler joined CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey to announce that Consensus will return to his city next year, although, to beat the 100-degree heat, it will be moved from June to late April.
Though Austin was sweltering, Consensus-goers may miss the Texas heat after returning home to headlines about layoffs, price slumps and a once-highflying lender’s potential insolvency.
Consensus was a respite from the cold – and, hopefully for many, a fortification. Now it’s over. Crypto winter is here. Bundle up."
128,101,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/14/first-mover-asia-what-analysts-are-saying-after-crypto-lender-celsius-paused-withdrawals-btc-drops-below-23k/,First Mover Asia: What Analysts Are Saying After Crypto Lender Celsius Paused Withdrawals; BTC Drops Below $23K,Some observers of digital asset markets criticized the move but others said that Celsius could be protecting user funds; ether plummets 17%.,2022-06-14,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos have a dark day.
Insights: Observers of digital assets react differently to Celsius's announcement to pause withdrawals.
Technician's take: (In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is re-publishing a recent Consensus 2022-related column by CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,209 -16.6%
Ether (ETH): $1,193 -17%
A Dark Day for Bitcoin and Other Cryptos
Investors had their choice of comparatives for describing bitcoin's deep dive on Monday.
Bitcoin sank to its lowest level since December 2020.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization fell to less than a third of its all-time high of nearly $70,000 just eight months ago and less than half of where it perched at the start of 2022.
It was down 16% over the past 24 hours, a rare single-day, double-digit dip, and off over 30% from a month ago when it settled around $30,000 following the collapse of the terraUSD token. It fell for the seventh consecutive day.
By most any measure, bitcoin had a very, very, very bad day.
So did cryptos in general, whose combined market cap tumbled below $1 trillion for the first time since early 2021 amid ongoing inflation fears and a torrent of bad news from various protocols, including crypto lending platform Celsius's announcement that it was pausing withdrawals amid ""extreme market conditions.""
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $22,500, down more than 16% over the past day. As for major altcoins, the question wasn't whether they were in the red but by how much. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $1,200, off over 17% during the same period and its lowest level since January 2021. CRO was off more than 20% at one point amid news that the crypto exchange would pare about 5% of its workforce, roughly 260 jobs. Wrapped bitcoin (WBTC) and TRX were down nearly the same at that time.
Market analysts had a lot to say about the plunge. Little of it offered immediate comfort.
""It's a storm,"" 3iQ Digital Asset's head of research Mark Connors told CoinDesk in a phone interview.
""Bitcoin bears certainly are in ruckus mode, berating the largest crypto the way a schoolyard bully seeks out for tormenting the same easy mark,"" Uphold financial consultant Rich Blake wrote.
""Sentiment for cryptos is terrible as the global crypto market cap has fallen below $1 trillion dollars,"" Oanda senior analyst Edward Moya wrote. ""Bitcoin is attempting to form a base, but if price action falls below the $20,000 level, it could get even uglier.
‘’As inflation proves to be an even trickier opponent to beat than expected, bitcoin and ether are continuing to get a severe bruising in the ring,"" Hargreaves Lansdown senior investment and markets analyst Susannah Streeter wrote. ""They are prime victims of the flight away from risky assets as investors fret about spiraling consumer prices around the world.""
Cryptos' suffering tracked the hammering of major equity indexes with technology stocks at the forefront of the carnage. The S&P 500 fell 3.8%, re-entering bear market territory – meaning that it has lost 20% of its value from its previous high. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, which hit bear market ground weeks ago, was down a whopping 4.6%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 2.7%.
Even gold, a traditional safe-haven asset, declined by nearly 3%.
Investors will be anxiously watching the U.S. Federal Reserve's two-day meeting, which begins Tuesday and is widely expected to culminate with a 50-basis point interest rate hike as part of an ongoing effort to stem stubbornly high inflation. The latest U.S. Consumer Price Index report showed inflation rising 8.6%, a four-decade peak.
3iQ's Connors noted optimistically that the current crypto spiral was ""within the band of growth"" relative to other steep drops in crypto's 13-plus-year history. ""I wasn't around in 2018 for that $20,000 to $3,000 move, but the playing field is much different now as far as the number of people in it (and) the presidential mandate,"" he said, referring to U.S. President Joe Biden's executive order regarding crypto regulation. ""If you take the band of volatility over the past five years, we're still within it.""
Connors also said: ""The adoption rate the last time we checked both general wallets as well as institutions and mentions in 10-Qs are all at elevated levels. The fundamentals are intact.""
Still, the crypto industry has found itself struggling anew Monday with a now less-certain future. Lending platform BlockFi said it would slice about 20% of its workforce. Crypto.com and BlockFi's cuts followed closely after similar announcements by the Winklevoss twins-led exchange Gemini and Middle Eastern crypto-exchange Rain Financial, among others. On Monday, Binance, the world's largest major crypto exchange by trading volume, paused withdrawals for a brief period.
""As far as support levels, the next few days surely will test digital assets if a faster pace of tightening and more aggressive rate hikes are announced,"" Uphold's Blake wrote. ""For the moment, extreme market conditions and fed policy updates are exacerbating the consequences for crypto assets.""
S&P 500: 3,749 -3.8%
DJIA: 30,516 -2.7%
Nasdaq: 10,809 -4.6%
Gold: $1,821 -2.9%
Analysts Differ on Celsius Pause
Prominent crypto lending firm Celsius paused withdrawals and swap products early Monday, citing ""extreme market conditions” amid a market downturn. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies lost over 12% of total market capitalization as traders responded pessimistically to the latest U.S. Consumer Price Index report showing that inflation continued to rise in May.
Celsius’s announcement followed an April dictum in which Celsius told non-accredited investors that they could no longer transfer funds. The firm’s products are popular among crypto investors, and it offers yields of over 17% on deposits – a rate higher than those provided by most banks.
While retail crypto investors winced over the news, sentiment among analysts and market observers was mixed as some criticized the move while others said Celsius could be protecting user funds.
“Although such a decision is not unusual, as this is not a new phenomenon for centralized financial institutions, it will certainly affect the platform’s users and their desire to use centralized platforms like Celsius,” said Kate Kurbanova, co-founder of risk management platform Apostro, in an email to CoinDesk.
“I think that this decision was made while taking the Black Thursday of 2020 as prices of major cryptocurrencies fell steeply and caused a cascade of liquidations on lending platforms and its users lost their money,” Kurbanova explained.
Kurbanova added that users could choose what risks they consider acceptable, such as risk-facing liquidations and hacks on decentralized platforms but with the ability to withdraw money at any time or use centralized platforms which could be safer from a security standpoint but face a “risk of your assets being frozen for an indefinite period of time.”
Some market observers drew parallels with the implosion of Terra’s terraUSD (UST) stablecoin in mid-May, which caused prices of its related luna (LUNA) tokens to drop nearly 100% and value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications to plunge by $28 billion.
“The broader industry gets very uneasy with the mention of any news or event that can hurt investors, be it retail or corporate following the May episode of Terra’s legacy UST stablecoin collapse,” explained Vadym Synegin, vice president at ecosystem project WeWay.
“Celsius is sending out a message that it is currently insolvent and this is bound to usher in an unprecedented panic withdrawal whenever this access is granted to users. The crypto ecosystem does not respond well to panic events,” Synegin added.
Some analysts opined Celsius could have switched to newer strategies to continue to provide yields to users.
“Finding liquid assets that can pay high returns for $1 billion is not very hard to do; finding liquid assets for $30 billion, whilst keeping returns at such high rates, is almost impossible to do,” said Austin Kimm, director of strategy and investments at Choise.com, in a Telegram chat. “The only solution is to switch off deposits or move into much less liquid assets such as real estate, or crypto mining equipment.”
Meanwhile, Fabio Pezzotti, CEO of crypto investment fund Iconium, said Celsius’s move to pause withdrawals was a preventive measure to help the firm stabilize liquidity on the popular staked ether (stETH) product.
“During the last few days, rumors began to circulate that Celsius had become insolvent due to its high exposure to stETH, the Ethereum derivative by Lido Finance which began to lose its ETH ’peg’ last week,” Pezzotti said in a chat. “Talking about ’peg’ is not totally correct as stETH are derivative instruments collateralized by ETH 1:1. But since they become redeemable only after Ethereum’s merge, stETH’s price is decided by the market, which has determined a discount factor on the early conversion.
“Celsius was holding stETH to provide returns on the ETH deposited by their clients on its platform. The FUD generated by the stETH depeg and the current market conditions have dried up Celsius' on-hand reserves, forcing the company to pause withdrawals to stabilize liquidity. This is a preventive measure, already seen during market crashes, which serves precisely to avoid a total collapse,” Pezzotti said.
The 5 ‘Unsolved Problems’ of Crypto According to Dragonfly’s Haseeb Qureshi
(Editor's Note: In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is re-publishing a column by CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn based on an interview at Consensus 2022.)
Dragonfly Capital’s Haseeb Qureshi thinks there are five problem areas in crypto that you can make a fortune in solving. Those are identity, scalability, privacy, interoperability and UX (user experience).
A former poker player turned venture capitalist and philanthropist, Qureshi looks to blockchain as both a source of revenue and social good.
“The most important thing about crypto is permissionless innovation,” he said. “That’s the idea that you do not need to get a license or a business plan approved. You can just deploy a contract on-chain and it starts getting users.”
See also: Dragonfly's Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Bear Market
And so, Qureshi says, even if crypto has problems, it might prove its utility by allowing anyone to innovate.
At Consensus 2022 in Austin, Texas, CoinDesk asked Qureshi to explain crypto’s growing pains, and how he thinks about its longstanding issues. Here’s what he said (the transcript has been lightly edited for clarity and brevity):
Privacy
When you think about privacy, everything you do in DeFi [decentralized finance] is viewable. We've gotten used to that in crypto, but that's not the way of the future. There will be some trade-off that we can make that is going to be similar to the kind of privacy we expect in the real world that would still give us the auditability that we care about and that makes DeFi, DeFi.
See also: Lunarpunks, Privacy and the New Encryption Guerillas
Interoperability
Right now, you're extremely aware of what chain you're on. You know if you’re on Solana or Avalanche or Ethereum. At some point in the future, almost without a doubt, you will have digital assets and you will interact with applications – and that will be your relationship with [the blockchain].
On the internet, you don't interact with this service or that service. You don't interact with Cloudflare, and you certainly don't give a s**t about TCP/IP. Your allegiance is to your application. So in the future, if you want to do yield aggregation, instead of just looking at Yearn, you’ll look at what's the best yield anywhere in crypto. It will just be like calling out to another server on the internet.
Scalability
The fastest blockchains do fewer than, like, 1,000 TPS [transactions per second] each. You can argue about the margin there, but the bottom line is that none of them do that much throughput today. And for us to really get to world scale, all blockchains need to be much faster, much more scalable and have a much higher throughput. That applies to rollups and the like, too.
You want to get to not just tens of millions of users but hundreds of millions of users. Further, we talk a lot about users but we don't talk much about access patterns. If you want access patterns that look anything like what people do in Web 2, you need much, much, much more scalability.
You could argue that bitcoin is the most used cryptocurrency because it has the most holders. I don't know the exact numbers, but something like 50% of Americans own crypto. I’d guess more than half [of those] only own bitcoin. And maybe there's one transaction those people, who likely bought BTC on an exchange, actually settle on-chain, if that, per year. If that's the case, the access pattern of someone using bitcoin is that one transaction.
But what's the access patterns of someone using the internet? I don’t know how many Google searches I make per day. So a Web 3 user is gonna result in many transactions per day.
Identity
The issue here is having an online identity that can be relied upon. Let's say I want to offer you credit – credit is about your identity, about who you are but also about my recourse. I can only offer you credit if I know that I have a path toward getting it back. If I don’t know who you are and you run away, I'm underwater immediately. There's no recourse.
Related here is bankruptcy. That’s a punishment that survives you and our relationship if you default on the debt. Bankruptcy is one of the most important innovations that we have made in capital markets. It’s very underappreciated in crypto. It’s the way you protect your remaining assets if you cannot pay back all your creditors and how credits can punish you into the future. You cannot do credit without the concept of bankruptcy. But in order to have that, you need Identity. Identity that persists.
See also: Who You Really Are: A Conversation About Pseudonymity With Default Friend
Identity is also important for things like marketing. People don't think about this very often, but when you sign up for Coinbase, they can tell whether you're institution or retail. If you’re retail, they throw a bunch of incentives and charge you an arm and a leg for every transaction. If you're an institution, they don’t have to pay anything to get on board, but they charge you BIPs [bitcoin improvement proposals] because you're price-sensitive. Brokerages make all their money from retail.
In DeFi, I can't tell whether you are retail or whether you are Jump [Crypto, the digital asset wing of the eponymous hedge fund]. The protocol treats everyone the same. A centralized exchange’s margin would f**king collapse. Imagine how much money could be made if DeFi businesses could know who their customers are. Nobody can do it today because there's no notion of identity.
We're investing in a company called Quadrantid that allows you to selectively disclose parts of your KYC [know-your-customer] background. So you can selectively disclose your country or other parameters about yourself that you might want to prove to an application or business. This means you could KYC to receive an incentive, but may not have to.
UX
MetaMask, for instance, is not the most user-friendly way to transact. We've already seen some wallets start to do it much better, like Solana’s Phantom – great wallet experience. Keplr – great wallets. We've been able to learn from mistakes, and I think we're going to see more and more innovation.
U.S. Federal Reserve meeting
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia house price index (Q1/QoQ/YoY)
12:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(4:30 a.m. UTC): Japan industrial production (April MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" (from Consensus 2022) on CoinDesk TV:
Senators Lummis, Gillibrand on Landmark Crypto Bill, Chessmaster Garry Kasparov’s Views on Bitcoin
Senators Cynthia Lummis and Kirsten Gillibrand discussed their bipartisan, landmark crypto legislation live at Consensus in Austin, Texas. Plus, chessmaster Garry Kasparov shared his views on the future of crypto.
Tron’s Stablecoin Peg to Dollar Wobbles; Justin Sun Swears to Deploy $2B to Prop Up: Decentralized USD (USDD) fell to as low as 91 cents on crypto exchanges early Monday and was changing hands around 99 cents at press time.
Crypto.com, BlockFi to Cut Over 400 Jobs Amid Market Rout: The companies are the latest crypto firms to announce job reductions, joining Gemini and Rain Financial, among others.
Bank of England Chief Takes Victory Lap as Crypto Crumbles: Andrew Bailey, the head of the U.K. central bank, was testifying in Parliament on Monday afternoon.
MicroStrategy Now Down $1B on Its Bitcoin Bet: Bitcoin has extended its plunge to a fresh 18-month low, below $23,000.
Binance Resumes Bitcoin Withdrawals After Pause: CEO Changpeng Zhao attributed the issue to a “stuck transaction,"" and promised a quick fix.
How Much ETH Does Joe Lubin Hold?: As Ethereum gears up for the switch to proof-of-stake, how the network’s tokens have been distributed comes back into focus.
Today's crypto explainer: What We Know So Far About SHIB: The Metaverse
Other voices: Bitcoin Price Plunges Below $23,000 as Crypto Lender Celsius Halts Withdrawals (The Wall Street Journal)
"".@CelsiusNetwork is pausing all withdrawals, Swap and transfers between accounts. Acting in the interest of our community is our top priority. Our operations continue and we will continue to share information with the community. More here: link.medium.com."" (Crypto lender Celsius on Twitter) ... ""This morning we announced that after taking significant time to plan and consider, we are reducing our headcount by roughly 20%. This is not a decision we take lightly and is one that brings us great sadness."" (BlockFi CEO Zac Prince on Twitter) ... Bitcoin's price is getting routed today, so hashprice is feeling the pressure too For the first time since 2020, Bitcoin's hashprice is below $0.11/TH/day Currently, Bitcoin's USD hashprice is $0.1054/TH/day https://data.hashrateindex.com/chart/bitcoin-hashprice-index"" (Hashrate Index, bitcoin mining data analytics by Luxor Mining, on Twitter) ... ""MicroStrategy has just transferred 2089 #Bitcoin ($48 million) to a new wallet for the first time ever, likely planning to dump their bags. They’re now moments away from facing the largest liquidation in history. Ouch."" (CryptoWhale/Twitter)"
129,171,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/15/swan-bitcoin-ceo-calls-celsius-withdrawal-freeze-so-opaque/,Swan Bitcoin CEO Calls Celsius Withdrawal Freeze ‘So Opaque’,Cory Klippsten said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program that the crypto lending platform had misled investors.,2022-06-15,"Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten has a problem with Celsius.
He believes the crypto lending platform, which sparked his interest following the collapse of the terraUSD luna (UST) stablecoin, has not been forthcoming about its vulnerabilities and misled investors.
“It’s so opaque what’s going on in Celsius,” Klippsten said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program Tuesday, a day after Celsius’s announcement that it would freeze withdrawals due to “extreme market conditions.”
Celsius’s problems have led to widespread fears about crypto’s future and contributed to the four-day free fall in prices to two-year lows.
Read more: Crypto Lending Service Celsius Pauses Withdrawals, Citing 'Extreme Market Conditions'
Klippsten said Celsius first sparked his interest last May, and that his concerns about its model and what he considers false promises have increased.
By Friday, May 13, days after the news of Terra’s fall, Celsius announced that it had pulled half a billion dollars worth of user funds from Terra’s Anchor Protocol, news that rippled throughout the cryptocurrency industry.
""That was really stunning to hear,” Klippsten said. “That a professional risk management team had even bothered to be playing with an obvious Ponzi scheme like luna and furthermore, to be pulling it out a day before the collapse.""
This isn’t Celsius’s first encounter with controversy. In December of last year, it lost nearly $55 million dollars, or about 896 of wrapped bitcoin (wBTC), after BadgerDAO, a decentralized autonomous organization, was hacked for upwards of $120 million.
Klippsten adds that Celsius kept parking user funds in obscure no-name decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, which are risky and not good at operations. “It’s a big, big, big red flag.”
In April, Celsius banned new transfers by non-accredited investors on its U.S. platform, limiting who could add new assets and earn rewards. Nearly five months prior, the crypto lending firm had to replace its former chief financial officer, Yaron Shalem, after Shalem was arrested “for committing fraudulent offenses in the field of cryptocurrencies.”
Celsius’ marketing has been misleading , Klippsten added. “They make it sound like a better bank, and they make it sound like a high yield savings account,” he said.
The peer-to-peer platform is intended to facilitate crypto lending, and attracts users by returning 80% of its revenue to users in rewards, while the firm used the remaining 20% to fund the project’s expansion.
Celsius users are more likely to be unsecured lenders, Klippsten notes. “You're an unsecured creditor, and they can do whatever they want with your coins out the back end, essentially trading it like a hedge fund. You don't have any rights to your coins,” he said.
Read more: Nexo Proposes Celsius Buyout as Rival Lending Platform Halts Withdrawals
Yet, Klippsten said that crypto lending models are not inherently troubled. For those who must seek yield, “there’s definitely going to be a spectrum, and there will be some that are much more transparent,” he said, adding that those better managed platforms are likely to have “much stronger risk management, and frankly, lower yields on offer. You have to make that choice for yourself.”
Celsius’s freeze on withdrawals and transfers, and earlier terraUSD debacle could be a wake-up call, allowing investors to see the fallacy of a risk-free, high-yield product.
Celsius’s CEL token was recently trading at about 64 cents, according to CoinMarketCap data, placing the firm’s market capitalization just above $161 million."
130,60,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/15/tether-sees-new-wave-of-redemptions-as-fear-of-market-contagion-spreads/,Tether Sees New Wave of Redemptions as Fear of Market Contagion Spreads,"Investors pulled out some $1.6 billion this week from USDT, the largest stablecoin by market capitalization, amid growing nervousness as cryptocurrency prices keep sliding.",2022-06-15,"The latest crypto market rout has led to heightened anxiety among investors, accompanied by layoffs at Coinbase and other big industry players. Now fresh signs are emerging that the nervousness is hitting Tether, the issuer of the most popular stablecoin.
Investors pulled out about $1.6 billion in 48 hours from Tether's dollar-pegged USDT stablecoin, reducing its circulating supply to $70.8 billion, the lowest since October 2021, according to price tracker CoinGecko.
Tether's USDT has a different financial structure from the Terra blockchain's UST ""algorithmic stablecoin,"" which collapsed last month. But USDT has long suffered from investor doubts about the assets backing it, and whether redemptions would be honored in a full-blown crisis.
""Confidence in cryptos remains depressed and some traders are worried that Tether could suffer a similar fate as Terra's UST stablecoin,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda, said. ""Too many institutional crypto investors are down massively, and they are worried that if this part of the crypto ecosystem collapses, Tether will crash.""
Fear dominates in the crypto market as the price of cryptocurrencies crash and several big industry players face financial difficulties. Celsius, a crypto lender that once held over $10 billion in client assets, suspended withdrawals and transactions to prevent a run on its deposits and hired lawyers to restructure its liabilities. Three Arrows Capital, one of the largest crypto hedge funds, is also under scrutiny.
Paolo Ardoino, chief technology officer of Tether, said that Tether liquidated its Celsius position without a loss and has no exposure to Three Arrows Capital.
The composition of Tether's reserve to back the price of USDT has long since been an area of concern in the crypto market, with questions surrounding the nebulous ""commercial paper"" holding and digital asset investments. According to Tether's website, the reserve holds about $71 billion in assets.
In May, Tether lost $10 billion in market capitalization in the wake of the Terra ecosystem's implosion and the crash of the third-largest stablecoin, terraUSD (UST), to near zero from its dollar peg, which shook investors' trust in the stability of stablecoins.
A part of that money landed on Circle's USD coin (USDC), the second largest stablecoin, which was perceived as a safer choice, Moya said then.
Read more: Crypto Whales Ditched Tether for USDC After Stablecoin Panic
The total market value of cryptocurrencies fell below $1 trillion for the first time since January 2021, as persistently high inflation and recession fears squeeze financial markets.
Amid the turmoil, Tron's $700 million USDD stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar and has not recovered since then despite Tron founder Justin Sun's pledge to deploy $2 billion in reserves to defend its stability.
USDT's price has been holding up its anchor to the U.S. dollar, although it trades somewhat below $1 on crypto exchanges, indicating that the selling pressure is pushing its price down. At press time, USDT changed hands at 99.8 cents."
131,255,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/15/first-mover-asia-traders-see-bitcoin-falling-to-2017-levels-amid-ongoing-inflation-economic-concerns-cryptos-struggle/,"First Mover Asia: Traders See Bitcoin Falling to 2017 Levels Amid Ongoing Inflation, Economic Concerns; Cryptos Struggle","The largest digital asset by market cap could dip below $20,000 in the near future and is unlikely to rebound until macroeconomic conditions improve; bitcoin and ether are down in Tuesday trading.",2022-06-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and Ether continue to struggle.
Insights: Crypto traders are pessimistic about bitcoin's future pricing.
Technician's take: In place of the Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is republishing a Consensus 2022-related column by columnist Daniel Kuhn on Pussy Riot founding member Nadya Tolokonnikova.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $21,985 -1.8%
Ether (ETH): $1,201 -0.4%
Bitcoin and Ether Continue to Struggle
The day after the biggest crypto crash in two years brought little relief.
Digital assets continued to flounder Tuesday in a whirlwind of inflation fears and economic uncertainty with bitcoin and ether in a red muck for much of the day, and other cryptos struggling to regain ground they lost in Monday's dramatic sell-off.
Bitcoin was recently trading below $22,000 down roughly 2% during the last 24 hours. The decline was bitcoin's eighth consecutive day of losses. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has now dropped nearly 30% of its value over the past month and is threatening to test the not-long-ago unthinkable idea of support below $20,000, roughly where it stood in 2017.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $1,200, about flat from Monday when it hit a more than 18-month low. Among altcoins, SOL and XLM were recently up more than 5% after plunging on Monday, but WBTC and TRX continued to suffer with the latter off by over 13% at one point.
Crypto investors are nervously awaiting the U.S. central bank latest interest rate increase, which many observers now believe will be 75 basis points, harsh, inflationary medicine that seemed unlikely until the Consumer Price Index showed inflation continuing at four-year highs. Whether hawkish policy can tame inflation without sparking a recession remains uncertain.
""Bitcoin traders better be buckled up heading into the FOMC decision,"" Oanda senior analyst Americas Edward Moya wrote in an email. Bitcoin is still holding the $20,000 level and if Wall Street gets a very hawkish decision and press conference, Treasury yields and the dollar could surge once again and that would test the line in the sand many crypto traders have drawn.""
Stocks were calmer on Tuesday after the previous day's battering with the S&P 500, Dow Jones Industrial Average and Nasdaq all about flat. Gold, a traditional safe haven asset, was also down, however, a reminder of the degree of skittishness among investors.
""Wall Street was quick to fade the morning rebound that stemmed a modest improvement with producer prices, possibly providing some hope that core inflation continues to ease for businesses,"" Moya wrote.
Meanwhile, bad news and disturbing trends continued to plague crypto markets, with exchange giant Coinbase announcing the layoff of about 18% of its workforce – some 1,100 jobs. The cuts were the latest among major exchanges, following those in recent days by Winklevoss twins-led Gemini, Middle Eastern-based Rain Financial and Latin America-based Bitso and Buenbit.
Data on Tuesday also showed that crypto-tracked futures had lost over $1 billion over a 24-hour period, a victim of the fraught investment environment. Liquidation refers to when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader is unable to meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).
Also late Tuesday, Fox Business reported that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was investigating whether crypto exchanges have sufficient protections against insider trading. The SEC has sent a letter to a major crypto exchange inquiring about its safeguards and comes amid increasing scrutiny of the terraUSD stablecoin implosion and more widely, according to the report.
Oanda's Moya was pessimistic about crypto's prospects going forward. ""If bitcoin breaks below the $20,000 level, support might not emerge until the $17,000 level,"" he wrote. ""Another crypto plunge might not see major support until the 2019 summer high around the $14,000 level.""
S&P 500: 3,735 -0.3%
DJIA: 30,364 -0.5%
Nasdaq: 10,828 +0.1%
Gold: $1,808 -0.6%
Traders See Bitcoin Dropping Below $20,000
Bitcoin stabilized Tuesday at about $22,000 after crumbling Monday amid inflation fears and wider macroeconomic weakness. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had followed major Asian indices which continued their own recent spiral, closing at least 1% lower.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 dropped 1.32% as the yen tumbled to its lowest level against the dollar since 1998. The currency has declined 15% this year, becoming one of the worst-performing major currencies. Meanwhile, stocks in Tokyo slid the most since March and bond yields hit ceiling values, the Japan Times reported.
The decline came after the U.S. released poorer-than-expected inflation data for May in a report last week, which saw inflation increase by 8.6% compared to last year. Traders are now pricing in rate hikes of over 175 basis points through September, which is expected to bring down company revenues and slow down consumer spending.
“The crux of the concern plaguing investors is how harshly the [U.S. Federal Reserve] plans to tackle rising inflation in the face of stark new [consumer price index] data,” said Sophie Lund-Yates, lead equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, in an email. “Getting the balance wrong and hiking interest rates too aggressively could see recession fears become a reality.”
Crypto traders and analysts are remaining similarly bearish. FxPro senior market analyst Alex Kuptsikevich said in a note Tuesday that market sentiment remained in “extreme fear” mode as bitcoin saw its biggest decline since early 2020.
Kuptsikevich added that bitcoin prices could tumble to 2017 highs under $20,000 before long-term buyers return to the market, and provided macroeconomic sentiment improves.
Bradley Duke, co-CEO at crypto exchange-traded product provider ETC Group, also stated bitcoin could retest 2017’s levels with the “next major support” at “$20,000.” “Crypto markets are in extreme fear mode, with the only recent comparable period of extended low sentiment stretching back to March 2020,” he said.
Meanwhile, some investors said a decline in bitcoin prices was tied to a rout in global stocks.
“The global economic environment is becoming extremely tough to navigate for investors involved in all kinds of markets, so it is no surprise that bitcoin is also facing increased downward pressure,” said Mikkel Morch, executive director at crypto/digital asset hedge fund ARK36. He added: “Over the past couple of years, cryptocurrencies have become a global macro asset and so it is to be expected that they will react negatively now when investors realize that central banks haven’t reacted nearly as aggressively as they will need to in order to get inflation under control.”
Pussy Riot, Political Action and the Future of DAOs
Growing up, Nadya Tolokonnikova, one of the founders of protest collective Pussy Riot, wanted to be a feminist. That’s what the 32-year-old artist and punk rocker told CoinDesk at Consensus 2022 in Austin, Texas.
Pussy Riot, Tolokonnikova explained while sitting on the floor of the Austin Convention Center, is often mistakenly thought of as just a punk-rock outfit – one that first made headlines in 2012 for its anti-Putin anthems. But the group, which operates like an off-chain decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), is so much more.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
“Anyone can join Pussy Riot,” Tolokonnikova said on the Big Ideas stage on Saturday. “We're open source, we write our own code … We’re decentralized, we’re autonomous and we’re an organization.”
The artistic, political collective – which counts over 100 members, of which a punk band is just a small part – is working toward a more equal world. Over the past decade, Pussy Riot has founded media companies, published books and staged protests on and offline to further their “global feminist protest art movement.”
See also: Crypto: The Gift That Keeps On Giving (to Charity) | Opinion
Lately, the group has been using the censorship-resistant tools enabled by crypto. Tolokonnikova was a co-founder of women and LGBTQ+ activist group Unicorn DAO. She also helped found Ukraine DAO, which auctioned an image of the Ukrainian flag in March for 2,258 ETH (approximately $6.75 million at the time) to support people affected by the Russian invasion.
“My goal is for future generations that are going to be onboarding into Web 3 … will have gender equality,” Tolokonnikova said. “This is how I see my role in crypto.”
Last week, as the Consensus event was unfolding a few blocks to the south, members of Pussy Riot, UnicornDAO and the Lakota Indigenous group Ikiya Collective charged into the Texas State Capitol building to stage a protest.
They unfurled a 45-foot banner reading “MATRIARCHY NOW!” from the third floor and then rushed out of the building. The moment of “domination” was minted as a non-fungible token (NFT) using auction platform Party Bid. To date, the group has raised 2.38980764 ETH – worth just shy of $3,000 – from 23 contributors to fund reproductive rights.
John Caldwell, a founder of Unicorn, said the group was “surprised” by how little attention and support this protest action has received. Texas, a U.S. state known for supporting the ideals of autonomy, personal freedom and limited state intervention, has been at the forefront of the conservative-led charge to roll back abortion rights, he said.
“I didn’t come here for the conference, I came here to protest,” Tolokonnikova said, adding that the crowdfunding model allows anyone who’s so inclined to contribute dollars or cents to their cause. Decrypt reported “mixed reactions,” with some Capitol building visitors snapping pictures and others hurrying out of the way.
Though she’s similarly taken aback by how little buzz the Capitol publicity stunt generated, Tolokonnikova said crypto is full of energy. “A lot of people here are visionaries. They want to build a better world,” she said.
Perhaps no one knows better than Tolokonnikova how much work goes on behind the scenes at activist causes. She said she splits her time doing logistical work for the DAO – answering emails, participating in her Discord channels, speaking to artists and auction houses – and planning showstopping events.
As co-founder of independent media outlet Mediazona, she has spoken before the U.S. Congress, British Parliament, European Parliament and performed at Banksy's Dismaland exhibition.
See also: DAOs and the Coming InDAOstrial Revolution | Opinion
At an earlier Consensus event on the Big Ideas stage, Ellie Rennie, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT) professor and head of the Australian university’s Blockchain Innovation Hub, said DAOs are a new type of organization that will require a new mix of interpersonal and technological skills to get right.
She noted that we should also not vilify DAOs that experiment and fail. “To be transient is OK,” she said. “We need to find what makes communities resilient.”
Perhaps the hardest task for DAO managers, faced with a tool that adds elements of financialization and speculation to social causes, is creating ways to “align” everyone’s needs. Economic incentives may encourage participation, but perhaps not commitment.
Others come to crypto precisely because it is apolitical – a space that seems insulated from the dramas, inconsistencies and superficialities of modern-day politics. Crypto, by creating tools that anyone can use, has a plausible case for being “credibly neutral.”
Of course, some would disagree. Perhaps crypto will only rebound from the unfolding bear market if it finds a way to meaningfully engage with the world. In politics, perhaps that means crypto becoming an effective tool for change.
“Being apolitical there is no such thing,” Tolokonnikova said. “Apolitical just means supporting players that are already in power.”
U.S. Federal Reserve meeting
Australia House Price Index (Q1/QoQ/YoY)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China industrial production (May/YoY
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Deep Crypto Sell-Off, Coinbase Layoffs, Celsius Pausing Withdrawals, All Eyes on Fed as Investors Fear What’s Next
Crypto market capitalization fell by some 12% in the last 24 hours to nearly $970 billion on Monday morning amid fears over aggressive Federal Reserve rate hikes. Sean Farrell of Fundstrat Global Advisors and Gritt Trakulhoon of Titan Investment provided markets analysis. Plus, Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten discussed the potential risks associated with crypto lending service Celsius.
Coinbase Lays Off Around 1,100 Employees: The exchange is reducing its workforce by roughly 18%. CEO Brian Armstrong admits the company ""grew too quickly.""
Cryptos See Over $1B in Liquidations as Bitcoin, Ether Lose Major Support Levels: Bitcoin lost the $25,000 level, while ether briefly slid to nearly $1,200.
Morgan Stanley Says Ether Underperformance Echoes Crypto Downturn of 2018: Expectations of higher Federal Reserve interest rates are weighing on crypto prices, the bank's analysts said.
Celsius’s CEL Token Jumps 8-Fold in Intraday Spike: The lender’s token reached a high of $2.57 in what appears to be a short squeeze.
MicroStrategy Defended at BTIG; Saylor Not Expecting Imminent Margin Call: Shares of the technology company have tumbled alongside bitcoin, down 35% over the past few days and nearly 75% so far this year.
Wanna Bet? Crypto Prediction Markets Could Be a New ‘Source of Truth’: Andrew Eaddy and Clay Graubard made the case for empowering individuals through technology as trust in institutions declines.
Today's crypto explainer: What Are Liquidity Pools?
Other voices: The crypto industry just had one of its worst days ever — Here’s what happened (CNBC)
""Economic conditions are changing rapidly: We appear to be entering a recession after a 10+ year economic boom. A recession could lead to another crypto winter, and could last for an extended period. In past crypto winters, trading revenue (our largest revenue source) has declined significantly. While it’s hard to predict the economy or the markets, we always plan for the worst so we can operate the business through any environment."" (Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong in blog post announcing layoffs) ... "".@CelsiusNetwork is working around the clock for our community. It’s all hands on deck, so there will be no Twitter Spaces this week."" (Crypto lending platform Celsius/Twitter) ... ""There has been continuing volatility and further significant movements of the stETH:ETH exchange rate again today. While the discount on stETH on secondary markets is ~5% at the time of writing, Lido continues to operate normally."" (Liquid staking platform Lido/Twitter) ... For the current market extreme condition, @trondaoreserve has received another 500 million USDC to defend #USDD peg. Now USDD collateralization rate is 310%. (Tron) ... ""Like the man said, single digit hashprice comes at you fast...In response to yesterday's brutal market action, Bitcoin's hashprice has dipped to $0.0950/TH/dayHashprice has not traded below $0.10/TH/day since October 2020."" (Hashrate Index, bitcoin mining data analytics by Luxor Mining, on Twitter)"
132,254,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/15/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-slides-toward-20k-in-record-losing-streak-as-fed-ecb-meet/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Slides Toward $20K in Record Losing Streak as Fed, ECB Meet","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 15, 2022.",2022-06-15,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off.)
Price point: Bitcoin slides toward $20K, a price level not seen since 2020, as the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares to jack up interest rates.
Market Moves: Distress is spreading across the crypto industry, with pain felt from the crypto lender Celsius to the hedge fund Three Arrows. The celebrity investor Kevin O'Leary tells CoinDesk that, ""We need someone to go to zero.""
Bitcoin (BTC) neared $20,000 in European hours Wednesday, sliding toward a crucial psychological level not seen since 2020, as distress spread across crypto and traditional markets.
The price of the largest cryptocurrency by market value has now declined for nine straight days, a record losing streak in pricing data going back to the early 2010s.
Turmoil in traditional markets pushed the European Central Bank to hold a rare, unscheduled meeting on Wednesday to discuss rising borrowing costs. (And markets quickly bounced on the news.) In a statement, the ECB promised to ""apply flexibility"" in its campaign to tighten monetary conditions, in light of the ""current market situation.""
The U.S. Federal Reserve is scheduled to conclude its latest closed-door meeting on monetary policy with a statement at 2 p.m. ET on Wednesday, and bond traders now fully expect a 0.75 percentage point interest-rate hike, the biggest since the 1990s. (Officials are expected to publish an update of their closely tracked ""Summary of Economic Predictions,"" known colloquially as the ""dot plot."")
Sentiment among investors remains bearish, CoinDesk's Shaurya Malwa reported.
“Concerns around a sharp tightening of monetary policy are weighing on financial markets and are trickling down into cryptocurrencies through their influence on large institutional investors,” Alex Kuptsikevich, an FxPro senior market analyst, said in an email to CoinDesk. “It is not surprising that bitcoin and ether are dragging the entire cryptocurrency market down in such an environment.""
Read More: 'Staked Ether' Becomes Focus of Crypto Stress, From Celsius to Three Arrows
The rapid tightening of monetary conditions – part of a push by central bankers to tamp down fast-rising inflation – has sucked liquidity out of crypto markets, and now cracks are appearing across the industry.
Crypto lender Celsius paused all withdrawals earlier this week, citing ""extreme market conditions,"" leading to questions about the firm’s liquidity. The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday that Celsius has hired lawyers specializing in business restructuring to help it navigate its thorny financial situation.
Prominent crypto fund Three Arrows Capital faced at least $400 million in liquidations and scrambled to lower its collateral levels by selling key positions. The Block reported Wednesday that Three Arrows Capital, popularly known as 3AC, has faced liquidations by crypto lending firms and is in the process of repaying lenders and counterparties.
Coinbase (COIN) and other big crypto firms are laying off thousands of employees, and analysts are on the hunt for fresh signs of distress. Those include scouring arcane market indicators like the ""stETH discount,"" CoinDesk's Krisztian Sandor reported.
Some firms are coming out proactively with self-assessments of good health (or innocence in the eyes of traders).
Tether, the issuer of the popular dollar-linked stablecoin USDT, denied claims that its commercial paper portfolio is 85% backed by Chinese or Asian commercial paper, as reported by CoinDesk's Jamie Crawley.
Tether described certain rumors to this effect as ""completely false and likely spread to induce further panic in order to generate additional profits from an already stressed market,"" in an announcement on Wednesday.
'Go to zero'
According to FSInsights, an analysis firm, the combination of macro headwinds and over-leveraged yield strategies has resulted in the forced selling of cryptocurrencies in the last few days, wiping more than $200 billion in value from the digital asset market, Will Canny reported.
The “takedown of terraUSD (UST) and Celsius is long-term constructive for the industry,” wrote the head of digital asset strategy, Sean Farrell.
“Such public displays of ignorant capital destruction are often overlooked in the traditional finance industry (or take a very long time to unwind),” his note said. Fortunately, he wrote, crypto markets have the benefit of “iterating and improving at a more rapid pace.""
The prevailing sense in the market, though, is that there's plenty of pain still to come.
The celebrity investor Kevin O’Leary says he isn’t ready to call a bottom in the crypto sector short of a major negative occurrence.
“You don’t get a bottom until you have an event,” O’Leary told CoinDesk this week. “In the crypto world, we need someone to go to zero.”
Celsius Troubles, UST Collapse Could Have Long-Term Benefits for Crypto, FSInsight Says The crypto lender was notorious for promoting risk-free yields on client assets, the report said.
Kevin O'Leary Says ‘Panic Event’ Is Needed Before Crypto Bottoms Kevin O’Leary spoke to CoinDesk ahead of the move to the Toronto Stock Exchange of WonderFi, the crypto marketplace in which he’s a strategic investor.
Bitcoin Drops Toward $20K Amid Contagion Risks in Crypto Markets The asset is nearing a price level not seen since 2020 as prominent crypto firms see possible insolvencies.
Tether Denies Claims of Asian Commercial Paper Backing, Exposure to Three Arrows Capital Tether described certain rumors spreading to this effect as ""completely false and likely spread to induce further panic.""
Asset Manager AllianceBernstein to Add Blockchain Technology in Deal With Allfunds Unit AllianceBernstein said blockchain technology will be transformative to the asset -management business.
Three Arrows Faces Possible Insolvency After Unforeseen Liquidations The investment firm has been one of the most vocal crypto market participants in the past few years.
’Stripe for NFTs’ NFTPort Raises $26M Series A The round was co-led by Atomico and Taavet+Sten, the investment arm from the co-founders of Wise and Teleport.
Crypto Lender Celsius Hires Restructuring Attorneys, WSJ Reports Celsius announced early Monday it would pause withdrawals along with its swap and transfer products, citing ""extreme market conditions.""
Swan Bitcoin CEO Calls Celsius Withdrawal Freeze ‘So Opaque’ Cory Klippsten said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program that the crypto lending platform had misled investors.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra."
133,72,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/16/trons-trx-bumps-27-as-dao-deploys-220m-for-token-purchase/,Tron's TRX Bumps 27% as DAO Deploys $220M for Token Purchase,Founder Justin Sun has injected over $2 billion this week to support the Tron market.,2022-06-16,"Tron’s TRX token rose as much as 27% in the past 24 hours as its ecosystem stablecoin decentralized USD (USDD) inched closer to its intended $1 peg.
TronDAO, a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) that oversees development on Tron, said in a Wednesday tweet that it sent over $120 million worth of USD coin (USDC) to Binance to “purchase TRX,” creating buying pressure among traders. The DAO later sent another $100 million for the TRX purchase, it said in a separate tweet.
TRX rose to over 6 cents in Asian morning hours before a brief sell-off at the time of writing. The token was trading at 4 cents in European hours Wednesday. Futures tracking the token saw some $8 million in liquidations, one of the highest among major cryptocurrencies.
Additional demand for TRX likely came as traders tried to bring USDD back to its peg amid a broader market run that saw bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) rise over 6.3% and 11% in the past 24 hours.
USDD fell to as low as 91 cents this week amid contagion risks in the crypto market and weak macroeconomic sentiment. USDD is an algorithmic stablecoin on Tron and relies on an automated balancing mechanism that involves minting, or burning, of $1 worth of TRX to create 1 USDD.
Earlier this week, Tron founder Justin Sun deployed over $2 billion as traders seemed to short TRX. Funding rates – or the interest paid by traders to borrow capital for a trade – to short, or bet against, TRX futures reached a whopping 500%. Sun said the capital was intended to “fight them.”
TronDAO said in a tweet Tuesday that it added $650 million of USDC to its reserve to “safeguard the overall blockchain industry and crypto market.”
TronDAO seems committed to protecting USDD’s peg to seemingly avoid a repeat of the implosion of Terra stablecoin terraUSD (UST). It received some $500 million in USDC Tuesday to “defend #USDD peg” amid “current extreme market conditions,” per a tweet."
134,103,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/16/first-mover-asia-celsius-risks-triggered-crypto-crash-says-huobi-group-cfo-bitcoin-wobbles-but-doesnt-break-post-rate-hike/,"First Mover Asia: Celsius Risks Triggered Crypto Crash, Says Huobi Group CFO; Bitcoin Wobbles but Doesn't Break Post-Rate Hike","Lily Zhang told CoinDesk the lending platform's problems were ill-timed following the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin, and crypto prices could decline further; major altcoins regain ground.",2022-06-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin fell as the U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell announced the highest interest rate hike since 1994. Bitcoin later recovered.
Insights: Huobi Group's chief financial officer attributed the recent crypto crash to lending platform Celsius' announcement that it would pause withdrawals.
Technician's take: In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is republishing a report on the current crypto winter by CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,710 +3.6%
Ether (ETH): $1,246 +4%
Bitcoin Wobbles but Regains Its Balance
The Fed decreed interest rates will rise again.
Bitcoin cowered at first, then shrugged and climbed.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization recently moved past $22,700, a 3.6% jump from where it stood 24 hours earlier. Upon hearing the widely expected news Wednesday morning that the U.S. central bank would hike rates by the highest increment in more than a quarter-century – three-quarters of a percentage point – bitcoin fell toward $20,000. The price recovered shortly after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell made his announcement.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, also dropped first before rising about 4% from Tuesday to cross $1,200. Other major altcoins were in the green with SOL up 20% at one point, and UNI and DOT each rising over 15%. The increases recovered some of the massive amounts of ground that major cryptos lost over the past six days following first a surprising poor Consumer Price Index showing untamed inflation and then crypto lending platform Celsius' decision to halt withdrawals.
The fear, uncertainty, and doubt (FUD as it's known in the industry) has taken hold over crypto markets, moving from one party (and what it signifies within the ecosystem) to the next,"" Elementus CEO Max Galka wrote to CoinDesk. ""Today it is Celsius, tomorrow it will likely be another entity. When this cycle starts, exotic assets like cryptocurrencies are the first to be sold among institutional investors, and we will all know where the road ends.""
Crypto prices dovetailed with stocks' gains on Wednesday with the tech heavy Nasdaq rising 2.5% to reverse some of its steep losses from earlier in the week. The S&P 500, which hit bear market territory on Tuesday, meaning that it fell at least 20% from its previous high, gained 1.4% to break a five-day losing streak as investors reacted positively to the Fed's strong inflationary medicine and indications that it would continue its monetary hawkishness. Gold, a traditional safe haven that had dropped in previous days, increased 1.2%.
Powell said that last week's inflation surprise warranted “strong action at this meeting” rather than waiting another six weeks for the next gathering. “We decided we needed to go ahead, and so we did,” Powell said. “We came to the view that we’d like to do a little more front-end loading on that.""
He noted that ""either a 50-basis-point or a 75-basis-point increase seems most likely at our next meeting.”
Inflation played prominently on the minds of European financial leaders as well earlier Wednesday as the European Central Bank called an unscheduled meeting to consider wider market issues, including rising borrowing costs among indebted countries on the continent.
Meanwhile, the crypto industry continued to reckon with fallout from Celsius and the collapse last month of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and LUNA token that supported it. Bitcoin was trading near $40,000 prior to UST losing its dollar peg in early May, and the dual debacles have undermined crypto investor confidence. Elementus' Galka noted similarities in the current environment to the 2008 financial crisis when equity markets plummeted.
""The current market conditions surrounding Terra and Celsius, and what both parties represent purely as psychological catalysts, do appear to have the makings of another 2008 crash,"" Galka wrote. ""There are important differentiators for sure: Terra USD was a flawed protocol vulnerable to attack, while the houses sold in 2008 dropped in fundamental value. In both cases, however, widespread fear was the primary motivator, introduced by the possibility of risk becoming a reality.""
S&P 500: 3,789 +1.4%
DJIA: 30,668 +1%
Nasdaq: 11,099 +2.5%
Gold: $1,834 +1.2%
Celsius Triggered the Latest Crypto Crash
Bitcoin extended its losing streak to a record nine days and neared the $20,000 level after Asian markets closed. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization is down 30% decline over the past week.
Risk-averse traders continue to shy away from bitcoin amid macroeconomic concerns such as rising inflation and contagion risks from within the crypto market.
Some, like Lily Zhang, the chief financial officer of Huobi Group, attributed bitcoin’s fall this week to troubles at prominent crypto lender Celsius, plus weak global markets. Huobi is one of the most popular exchanges in the Asian market and trades billions of dollars daily.
“We believe that the immediate trigger for the crypto crash appears to be a massive sell-off by investors amid the pausing of withdrawal services by crypto lending firm Celsius,” Zhang told CoinDesk in an email, adding the development came as crypto traders were just recovering from the implosion of Terra last month.
Celsius offered its users yields of up to 17% on deposits – an attractive amount for users looking to enter the crypto market and earn on idle capital. The firm used several strategies to garner returns, such as investing in liquidity pools on decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms.
Such strategies worked … until they didn’t. Poor market dynamics caused prices of staked ether (stETH), a popular ether derivative product used by the likes of Celsius, to stray away from prices of spot ether (ETH) and sent investing strategies akilter.
The contagion risk affected many prominent crypto players, with Celsius pausing all user withdrawals this week and notable crypto fund Three Arrows Capital seeing at least $400 million in losses due to liquidations.
Contagion risks on top of macroeconomic concerns could have led to outflows. As per a note this week from crypto firm CoinShares, investors have withdrawn over $102 million from cryptocurrencies last week amid expectations of a tightening of monetary policy by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
Meanwhile, Huobi’s Zhang says the market could see further declines as more liquidations occur and players are forced to sell.
“In the short term, the market will remain in a precarious position, and we should prepare for more liquidations which will increase the downward trend we are already seeing on stETH,” Zhang said.
Zhang, however, added that prices could see a recovery after short-term volatility subsides: “On an optimistic note, as the selling pressure on stETH continues to increase, more demand will seep into the second-hand markets and create cheaper stETH prices that may be attractive to new investors, which will in-turn increase demand and drive prices back up to normal.”
Sentiment among other crypto traders remains mixed. BitMEX founder Arthur Hayes fears the market has not yet hit rock bottom, and we could see a massive sell-off in cryptocurrencies if bitcoin falls below $20,000. Elsewhere, Galaxy Digital head Mike Novogratz said in a tweet that bitcoin is close to the “bottom” and will hold above $20,000.
As for the Celsius troubles, some say users are better off custodying their own assets than depending on a third party. One executive who has witnessed several crypto winters, said that markets can decline quickly and scarily, but they’re not indefinite.
“Self-custody is what crypto was built for, and what we are seeing right now is not unusual,” explained Brian Norton, chief operating officer of MyEtherWallet, in an email to CoinDesk. “These sorts of occurrences illustrate the need and benefits of self-custody, and provide time and opportunity for people to learn how it is done.
“I think every time you see this, it just reinforces the point that if you are relying exclusively on centralized platforms, even when the yields are great, you’re still giving up a good deal of control over your digital assets,” Norton added.
Crypto Winter Is Here. The Weak Will Die, and the Strong Will Eat Their Bones
Let visions of Consensus carry you through the bear market.
It has been a week of whiplash for us here at CoinDesk. On the one hand, we just scored an immense triumph as an organization with Consensus 2022, which wrapped up on Sunday. The conference was a sprawling, frenetic four days that proved how intense and broad the interest in crypto is. It also, if I can pat my fellow CoinDeskers on the back, proved once and for all that we are the media organization at the center of it all.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
On the other hand, of course, in the mere two days since Consensus ended, we’ve seen an incredible rout in crypto markets, with bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) both dropping roughly 20% in two days.
There are now signs of a liquidity crunch, and maybe even insolvency, at the centralized lending platform Celsius Network ­– arguably the “other shoe” dropping after the LUNA/UST unwind. Trouble at Celsius, in turn, seems to have traders worried about stETH, an important bond-like token related to the Ethereum Merge. There are similar, seeming liquidity issues at Three Arrows Capital and, to top it all off, crypto exchange Coinbase just laid off 1,100 people.
There is so much to say about this moment, and we here at CoinDesk will be saying all of it in the coming weeks and months as we help you navigate the crypto crisis. But before the dominos started toppling at scale, I was planning for this column to be about the amazingness of Consensus. And I still think that’s important, because the vision and passion that was on display at Consensus in Austin, Texas, last weekend is exactly how we find our way out of this mess.
A big tent
Above all, Consensus was a big tent. Huge, in fact, literally and figuratively. We drew 17,000 attendees to the conference itself, and another 3,000 attended satellite events. It was the South by Southwest of crypto, complete with concerts from Disclosure and Big Boi. And it will be next year, in Austin, too.
More to the point, though, the breadth of programming and perspectives was mind-boggling. For instance, I was on my way to moderate a panel and had a few moments to spare, and so I stuck my head in a random auditorium – and there was Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen, who has little crypto involvement aside from a shared concern about data harvesting.
I got to see sci-fi author Neal Stephenson and technologist Jaron Lanier in conversation with CoinDesk contributor Leah Callon-Butler. I myself got to interview one of the Baylor University bitcoin researchers, and also had a delightfully unhinged conversation with Chris Gabriel, aka MemeAnalysis, about memetics, Freud, black magic and the CIA.
See also: Ex-CIA Director Says Criminals Will Move Away From Bitcoin
Crypto, it seems clear, is becoming a Schelling point for various stripes of dissatisfaction with the status quo. A Schelling point is, very loosely, a symbol, site, technology or other focal point that draws people together to collaborate without explicit communication or coordination. Crypto has seized society’s imagination and become a site for transformative change – even if we’re not clear where it’s headed.
Crashdown?
And here we get to the market crash. I feel immense empathy for those who are losing their jobs right now and for those who will in the coming days and weeks. I’ve been there – I lost my job as a result of the 2018 crypto crash.
But there are also immense positives to a crypto downturn. The products failing – particularly luna and Celsius – were substantially illusory all along, driven by inflated, unsustainable returns. It’s now becoming clear that the “profits” depositors in these systems received were essentially a game of musical chairs using venture capital money.
Coinbase, meanwhile, has admitted that it made a major strategic mistake by hiring too fast despite, as I pointed out when it went public in 2021, the brutally cyclical nature of the exchange business. And Three Arrows, a highly influential venture firm, appears to have been heavily invested in some of the most speculative and risky projects on the market.
I know it’s a terrible cliché, but it’s nonetheless true: All of that is, in fact, the good news.
Back at it
While we’ll certainly see more unwinds, withdrawal freezes and mysterious silences over the next few weeks or even months, the market crash will be hardest on companies and investors who have made poor decisions. As crypto expanded and hype built over the past two years, fundamentally worthless projects proliferated, minting their own ephemeral tokens and convincing uninformed retail traders and high-profile veteran hedge fund managers alike that they had value.
This sort of garbage has crept into crypto during every expansion cycle. The current downturn is the holy cleansing flame that will eliminate it, in the same way that an old-growth forest needs a good fire every once in a while to renew itself. Getting rid of fake trash built on hype and a cult of personality means that, while there may be less money sloshing around for the next year or so, a much higher proportion of that will go to credible projects.
Capital is available
Those who are looking to build something based on a solid idea will thrive in this environment – especially because, unlike in 2018, it seems likely there will still be substantial venture capital available. As an example, consider that OpenSea, which generated $20 billion in NFT sales in 2021, was founded in 2017, with a lot of building through 2018 and 2019. That was not just during a fallow period for crypto, it was before most people had heard the term non-fungible token.
See also: 6 Reasons for Optimism This Crypto Winter | Opinion
There will be other OpenSeas, other Ethereum Name Services (ENS), other genuinely useful and profitable services or technologies developed during the coming bear market (OK, I’m ready to call it a crypto winter now). The best way to survive, or thrive, will be to do that building and position yourself to reap the benefits during the next big surge.
And remember that these downturns are always shorter than they seem. Personally, after losing my crypto job in 2018 it was less than two years before I was back in the industry – and having even more fun than before.
Bank of England interest rate decision
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Melbourne Institute's Australia consumer inflation expectations (June)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): China house price index (May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Fed Decision Day: Bitcoin Drops Toward $20K, Former CFTC Chair on Crypto Lending Crisis, DeFi Regulation
Former Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Timothy Massad joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the crypto lending crisis and outlook for decentralized finance regulation. Bitcoin dropped near $20,000 level amid contagion risks in the crypto market. Doug Schwenk of Digital Asset Research provided his markets analysis. Plus, three-time Grammy-nominated, multi-platinum recording artist and entrepreneur French Montana shared his “French Family NFT” that unlocks NFT music rights to his upcoming new album.
Fed Announces Biggest Interest Rate Hike in 28 Years; Bitcoin Gains: ""The labor market is extremely tight, and inflation is much too high,"" said Chair Jerome Powell.
Celsius Troubles, UST Collapse May Help Crypto Long Term, FSInsight Says: The firm sees good buying opportunity now for bitcoin.
Three Arrows Faces Possible Insolvency After Unforeseen Liquidations: Report: The investment firm has been one of the most vocal crypto market participants in the past few years.
Tether Sees New Wave of Redemptions as Fear of Market Contagion Spreads: Investors pulled out some $1.6 billion this week from USDT, the largest stablecoin by market capitalization, amid growing nervousness as cryptocurrency prices keep sliding.
A Manhattan Landlord Listed His Office Building in ETH as an NFT. Then Its Price Dropped $12M: The owner, Chris Okada, says the building will be relisted in the coming days to adjust for ether’s 40% price drop.
The Meme Economy: Those who grasp the memetic nature of not only crypto, but all value, can gain immense power from understanding natural flows of meaning. This piece is a preview of a talk to be given on the Big Ideas stage at Consensus 2022.
Today's crypto explainer: 15 Ways to Stay Sane While Trading Crypto
Other voices: Inside a Corporate Culture War Stoked by a Crypto C.E.O. (The New York Times)
""We’re not trying to induce a recession now. Let’s be clear about that.” (Fed Chairman Jerome Powell) ... ""Nexo's business model is designed with sustainability in mind, so we continue to grow even, and especially, now. We are not spoiled by VCs, Hollywood actors & sports teams – we did it organically on our own."" (Nexo/Twitter) ... ""@CelsiusNetwork team is working non-stop. We’re focused on your concerns and thankful to have heard from so many. To see you come together is a clear sign our community is the strongest in the world. This is a difficult moment; your patience and support mean the world to us."" (Crypto lending platform Celsius/Twitter) ... ""Two of the largest names in the play-to-earn scholarship space have decided to part ways after seven months. Members of Merit Circle voted to terminate their relationship with Yield Guild Games (YGG), buying out the guild's 175,000 USDC ($175,000) investment in the play-to-earn gaming decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) for 1.75 million USDC."" (Gaming DAO Merit Circle, YGG ‘Terminate Relationship’/CoinDesk) ... ""Uhh… a massive DAO just voted to “refund” one of their investors who was owed a 30x return ($5M+)This is an insane story that impacts all builders in web3 and as a founder I need to speak out Merit Circle DAO vs YGG 🧵"" (101.XYZ CEO Tim Connors/Twitter)"
135,252,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/18/this-is-the-time-for-lawsuits/,This Is the Time for Lawsuits,"The market is turning down, but the number of legal filings certainly isn't.",2022-06-18,"I wasn’t really keyed into other things during Consensus 2022 and the World Economic Forum, so here’s some of the stuff I missed over the past few weeks.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
The attorneys in crypto are going to be pretty busy, it seems.
The market is taking a downturn but legal activity, not so much. There's a lot happening that may shape guidance and laws that crypto entities have to follow in years to come.
We brought 20,000 people to Austin, Texas, and all I got was a lousy tan line.
JK. Consensus happened! We had 20,000 attendees, 500+ speakers, 27 stages(?) and a bajillion meetings. And, as is tradition, I wrote two stories in bars at night. Only one had an embarrassing typo! It’s pretty surreal to think that the most chaotic Consensus was 2018, which was widely seen as the most popular for years afterward. We had somewhere between 8,000 and 10,000 people I believe.
So anyways, it was a pretty busy few weeks. I apparently missed a lot between Consensus and Davos. A quick rundown follows.
PoolTogether, a decentralized finance (DeFi) startup facing a lawsuit for allegedly violating New York gambling laws, is selling non-fungible tokens (NFT) for its legal fund.
Nate Chastain, the former OpenSea staffer who quit last year after it came to light he may have bought NFTs from collections prior to his company listing them, now faces federal wire fraud and money laundering charges. I believe this is a first.
ForUsAll, a 401(k) provider in California, sued the U.S. Department of Labor on allegations of violating the Administrative Procedures Act (APA) when it issued guidance telling providers to “exercise extreme care” before adding cryptocurrencies to potential retirement funds.
Custodia, the Wyoming-based crypto bank founded by Caitlin Long (and previously known as Avanti), sued the Federal Reserve on allegations it violated a one-year deadline for approving master accounts. Custodia applied last year.
Grayscale (a sister company to CoinDesk) tapped Don Verrilli, a former Solicitor General for the U.S., presumably in anticipation of its own potential APA proceeding should the Securities and Exchange Commission reject its spot bitcoin exchange-traded fund conversion application next month.
Coin Center sued the U.S. Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service and various officials on allegations that the transaction reporting rule enshrined in last year’s infrastructure bill is not constitutional.
Binance.US is being sued by 2,000 investors in LUNA and terraUSD on allegations it misled those same investors by listing the pair of tokens.
The Senate confirmed Jaime Lizárraga and Mark Uyeda as commissioners with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Arrows Faces Possible Insolvency After Unforeseen Liquidations: Report: Three Arrows Capital is the subject of insolvency rumors.
How Crypto Lender Celsius Overheated: Oliver Knight details the run-up to Celsius’ announcement it was suspending withdrawals earlier this week.
Crypto Lender Celsius Hires Restructuring Attorneys, WSJ Reports: So, this doesn’t mean bankruptcy, but it does suggest Celsius may be in trouble.
(Politico) The blow-up of Celsius and other crypto lenders may lead to another regulatory backlash.
(The New York Times) The Times took a look at Tether (USDT) and its role in the broader crypto ecosystem.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See y’all next week!"
136,253,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/19/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-as-digital-gold-and-inflation-hedge-really-btc-is-under-water-while-the-metal-you-can-hold-is-breathing-air-cryptos-rebound-sunday/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin as Digital Gold and Inflation Hedge. Really? BTC Is Under Water, While the Metal You Can Hold Is Breathing Air; Cryptos Rebound Sunday","A Sunday rally had bitcoin perched back over $20K and ether above $1.1K, but the recent Terra and Celsius debacles have increased investor anxiety about the digital assets' ability to maintain those levels.",2022-06-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin Reclaims $20,000; other cryptos rally.
Insights: Old-fashioned gold is outperforming its digital version.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,510 +8%
Ether (ETH): $1,125 +13.2%
S&P 500: 3,674 +0.2%
DJIA: 29,888 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 10,798 +1.4%
Gold: $1,840 -0.5%
Bitcoin Reclaims $20K; Other Cryptos Rebound
A Sunday rally sent bitcoin back above the $20,000 threshold it has occupied for much of the past month, but analysts remained unconvinced that the surge will have staying power.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $20,500, up more than 8% over the previous 24 hours. At one point the previous day, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had fallen below $17,800, its lowest level since mid-December 2017 when Bitcoin was near the peak of a bull run. That dip also fell below the high of that up cycle, disproving a theory that bitcoin would not breach a previous cycle's high watermark.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, followed a similar price pattern, tumbling to an almost five-year low below $1,000 before rising late in the weekend. It was recently changing hands at about $1,120, up more than 13% from the previous day. Other major altcoins were well into the green with LTC and AXS up more than 17% at one point.
""We had marked $19K-$20K and $16K-$17K as areas of interest, and bitcoin bounced from the latter,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull, wrote to CoinDesk. ""However, unless it successfully maintains $20K with high volumes and bidding, we would not expect the rally to continue.""
The tech-heavy Nasdaq closed an otherwise dreadful week for stocks with a modest 1.4% gain on Friday, while the S&P 500 ticked up a fraction of a percentage point. The S&P, which includes a sizable tech component, tumbled 5.8% for the week and entered bear market territory, meaning that it is down at least 20% from its previous high. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell slightly.
Investors remain anxious about high inflation, which reached a 40-year high for May, continued economic fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the increasing likelihood of a global recession. Last Wednesday, the U.S. central bank boosted interest rates by the highest increment in more than a quarter-century – three-quarters of a percentage point – its latest step to stem rising prices. Other central banks have also recently raised rates amid ongoing increases in energy prices.
Meanwhile, crypto markets have also had to digest a series of debacles stretching to early May when the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) collapsed. Last week, cryptocurrency lending platform Celsius announced it was halting withdrawals and crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital is facing possible insolvency after incurring at least $400 million in liquidations, according to a report. Coinbase (COIN) and a number of other major digital asset exchanges have also announced steep job cuts. The Fear & Greed Index has been lingering in extreme fear territory for weeks and is now at 6, near its all-time low on a scale of zero to 100.
BitBull's DiPasquale expects volatility in crypto pricing the next few days because of options expiries but he added that ""the macro trend is likely to remain bearish until we see the Federal Reserve changing or at least relaxing its stance in July's FOMC meeting.""
Analogue Gold Beats Its Digital Version
Bitcoin is called the ultimate store of value by its fans; a digital version of gold that maintains all the best characteristics of it as an inflation hedge while being more efficient and liquid thanks to blockchain technology, which the bitcoin protocol pioneered.
But as crypto faces a harsh winter, perhaps one of the worst on record with major crypto institutions on the verge of failure, faith in this paradigm is being tested.
Indeed, when compared to gold, bitcoin is down more than 55% year to date. Gold, in contrast, is up 2.45%.
And as bitcoin and ether ended the week in Asia attempting a break below $20,000 and $1,000, respectively, data shows the worst might be yet to come.
On-chain data, spotted by CryptoQuant, shows lots of bitcoin is on the move. CryptoQuant’s Ki Young Ju believes it's either crypto hedge funds that are filling up collaterals for long positions or market makers filling up liquidity to execute sell orders for their clients.
“For what it's worth, they're bearish in the short term either way,” he tweeted.
Keep in mind that just over a week ago, bitcoin was at $30,000.
U.S. Juneteenth holiday
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): People's Bank of China interest rate decision
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of The Hash on CoinDesk TV:
Tron’s TRX Jumps as DAO Deploys $220M for Token Purchase, Investors Pull Out $1.6B From Tether’s Stablecoin
""The Hash"" hosts discussed Tether's new wave of redemptions as fear of market contagion spread, Tron DAO deploying $220 million for token purchases and more.
Luna Only Makes Bermuda Love Stablecoins More: Digital assets are the future, Bermuda Premier David Burt said during the Consensus 2022 conference. He’s not worried about his country being shut out by jurisdictions like the European Union.
Terraform Labs, Founder, VC Firms Sued on Claims That Investors Were Misled: The plaintiff alleges the so-called ""Terra Tokens"" resembled securities, regardless of investor perception.
Bitcoin Plunges Below $20K for First Time Since December 2020; Ether Drops Below $1K: The continuing plunge in traditional financial markets and panic about crypto lending platforms sent bitcoin into the teens for the first time in more than 18 months.
Hard Times in Crypto Lead to Price and Macro Risk: Just the first in a series of risks we’re thinking about during these crypto down days.
Today's crypto explainer: How to Buy Ether
Other voices: Crypto billionaire says Fed is driving current downturn
""Now, with the failings of two key systemically risky enterprises – Celsius and the Terra Luna project – roiling the crypto markets, it’s my hope that people in this industry can finally appreciate the value of asking questions and finding failings. Kicking the tires on projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow."" (CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey) ... ""Despite our efforts, we've been unable to get the whale to reduce their risk, or even get in contact with them. With the way things are trending with the whale's unresponsiveness, it's clear action must be taken to mitigate risk."" (Solana DeFi platform in a blog post)
UPDATE (June 19, 2022, 0:35 UTC): Adds information on Fear & Greed Index."
137,168,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/19/luna-only-makes-bermuda-love-stablecoins-more/,Luna Only Makes Bermuda Love Stablecoins More,"Digital assets are the future, Bermuda Premier David Burt said during the Consensus 2022 conference. He’s not worried about his country being shut out by jurisdictions like the EU.",2022-06-19,"AUSTIN, Texas — The collapse of Terra’s terraUSD (UST) made some investors think twice about buying stablecoins. The algorthmic stablecoin, pegged to the U.S. dollar, turned out to be less than stable, and investors in stablecoins as a whole were spooked about being left with nothing.
It’s the exact opposite way of thinking for Bermuda’s premier, David Burt. He said in an interview the Terra debacle highlights the importance of good regulation, vindicating his goal of making his country the world’s home for safe, innovative assets.
The recent dramatic loss of terraUSD’s dollar peg “is a validation of the approach that we've taken,” Burt told CoinDesk during the recent Consensus 2022 conference here.
“What Bermuda wants to be is the hub of the global stablecoin market, where it is issued under a regulated environment so investors and citizens can have confidence,” he said. “There are stablecoins, but then there are regulated stablecoins.”
He first told CoinDesk about his aims for crypto regulation during a ""Money Reimagined"" podcast in October 2020. Last week, it was announced that Bermuda had issued its first digital asset banking license to locally-based institution Jewel Bank, representing the first new bank license of any kind issued by Bermuda in 21 years.
""Money Reimagined"": Bermuda Will Skip the Age of CBDCs, With Premier David Burt
It’s been a long wait, but Burt hopes people will take that as a sign of the nation's thoroughness and credibility and be confident the Bermuda Monetary Authority has done its homework to protect hard-earned savings.
“Our regulator has responsibility to ensure that in breaking this new ground [involving stablecoins] all the risk has been assessed,” he said. “That might take longer, but you will know that we go through an incredibly thorough process.”
In addition to being a bank, Jewel plans to issue a U.S. dollar-linked stablecoin in the fall of this year for use in wholesale financial markets, potentially followed one pegged to the Bermudian dollar and then other currencies.
“Digital assets broadly are going to change the way in which the world operates,” Burt said. “We believe that is certainly going to be the future, and we want Bermuda to be the home of innovation.”
Jewel’s CEO agrees it’s not been an easy process – although Nick Lepetsos stressed that, as a bank-issued, fully reserved asset, its proposed stablecoin has a much more robust model than Terra’s algorithmic version.
Lepetsos told CoinDesk the procedure to secure Jewel's license included a grueling set of questions about the company’s expertise, capital and reason for existing – far from the cartoon view of “going to the DMV, the Department of Motor Vehicles, where you just sign up and get in line and you wait a while, and you get your license,” he said.
Read more: Jewel Bank Approved as Bermuda's First Digital Asset Bank as Premier Burt Readies to Take Nation Into Stablecoins
While long a major financial center, Bermuda’s a tiny territory – and business models like Jewel’s will depend on being able to reach bigger markets in places like the U.S.
But Burt doesn’t seem worried about the prospect of being shut out.
European Union lawmakers considering the bloc’s landmark Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA) have proposed that crypto providers should be barred from serving European markets if they operate from known tax havens. That could potentially include places like Bermuda, which was added to an EU “graylist” of noncooperative tax jurisdictions in February.
The European Commission has urged a rethink of plans it says could breach international trade law. But even if an EU blacklist does emerge for territories with sloppy crypto rules, Burt doesn’t seem worried.
“I would say that if they were to do that type of ranking, Bermuda would probably be at the top of the list,” he said. However, when it comes to regulation, “We know how to do this stuff, and so we have no fear about what may come.”
Read more: EU Ban on Tax-Haven Crypto Firms Could Breach Trade Law, Commission Warns"
138,258,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/06/20/decoupling-of-lidos-staked-eth-differs-from-stablecoin-collapse-coinshares-says/,"Decoupling of Lido’s Staked ETH Differs From Stablecoin Collapse, CoinShares Says","Staked ether (stETH) will trade at a discount until withdrawals are enabled, the report said.",2022-06-20,"The decoupling of ether (ETH) and Lido Finance’s staked ether (stETH) is not equivalent to the breaking of the link between terraUSD (UST) and the dollar, and isn’t an example of a stablecoin collapse, according to CoinShares.
Unlike a stablecoin, stETH does not have to trade 1:1 to function correctly, CoinShares wrote in a June 16 report. Moreover, because Ethereum has not enabled withdrawals from staking, there are “no arbitrage opportunities to keep the price in check.”
Staked ether is an Ethereum-based token representing ETH that’s been staked on Ethereum’s proof-of-stake Beacon Chain. StETH has tended to trade at a similar price to ETH because there’s a 1:1 claim relationship. However, after UST lost its peg last month, stETH began trading at a roughly 2% discount and at times as low as a 6% discount.
This is not the same as the UST crash because the underlying asset, ETH, is not directly affected by the market price of stETH, CoinShares said. The benefit of stETH is that it allows users to earn yield from staking ether, using a technique known as liquid staking. The ETH that’s been staked continues to secure the network as planned, while users have access to a liquid asset that can be invested. Lido’s product can be classified as “premature” because the inability to un-stake makes the stETH feature incomplete, according to the report.
The Ethereum community has become concerned over the amount of power that Lido has amassed because the liquid staking derivative has around one-third of all staked ether locked up in its contract, CoinShares said.
Because the underlying ETH is locked and there’s no planned date to introduce withdrawals, market makers like Celsius may be forced to sell their holdings to meet stETH redemptions, research analyst Marc Arjoon wrote. On-chain data appears to indicate that Celsius has enough assets to match the liabilities in the event that all stETH is redeemed “but given the opaqueness of centralized entities this is not certain,” according to the report.
Swissborg, BlockFi, Hodlnaut, Abra, Salt Lending and Nexo may also have to fulfill redemptions, the note said.
CoinShares says that longer-term investors whose profit and loss (P&L) is denominated in ETH could see this as a buying opportunity because stETH will become redeemable 1:1 when withdrawals are enabled. Conversely, investors with shorter-term horizons and U.S. dollar -denominated P&L will probably need to exit their positions, while arbitrageurs may also be buying stETH at a discount and shorting ETH, it added.
Recent updates on Ethereum’s testnets have been positive, which brings more confidence to those waiting on the Merge, and when withdrawals are finally enabled, any discount in stETH will likely be arbitraged away, but until then there will exist some form of discount, the report said.
This decoupling event will reinforce calls for regulation of lending platforms and the digital asset ecosystem in general, the report added.
Read more: Crypto Market Chaos: No, Lido Is Not ‘the Next Terra’"
139,265,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/21/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-holds-steady-over-20k-usdcs-flippening-of-usdt-and-the-continued-stablecoin-bear-market/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Holds Steady Over 20K, USDC's ‘Flippening’ of USDT and the Stablecoin Bear Market",Ether and most major altcoins spent much of the day in the green; a crisis in confidence has put pressure on the USDT peg.,2022-06-21,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin clings tight near $21,000; ether also rises.
Insights: USDC's may be ""flippening"" of USDT, and the stablecoin bear market continues.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,621 +0.9%
Ether (ETH): $1,124 +1.7%
Bitcoin Rises – for Now; Ether Is in the Green
So far, so good this week in crypto markets, but investors may not want to raise their hopes for a long-term rebound.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization gained ground for a third consecutive day, jumping past $21,000 on Tuesday. Bitcoin was recently trading at about $20,600, up about 1% and far removed from the two-year low of under $18,000 it hit on Saturday.
Still, analysts were pessimistic about the rally's staying power, noting a rise in volatility perhaps tied to large investors buying on price dips and citing troubling underlying conditions that include global turbulence, rising prices and stress about a possible recession. All of that has plagued crypto markets for the past eight months. Investors are scared, and the occasional surge notwithstanding, may have assumed a defensive crouch until evidence emerges that the economy is on a longer upturn, analysts say.
Last month's collapse of the TerraUSD stablecoin (UST) and more recent fiascos involving the decentralized finance (DeFi) lending platform Celsius and crypto hedge fund Three Arrows have further stoked investors' fears.
""Last week was bad,"" Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer of digital investment management firm Arca, told CNBC. ""It was not unprecedented in the sense that we've had multiple 30% to 50% moves in short periods of time. But it was historically bad in the sense that it was the first time it was happening in conjunction with bad things happening everywhere else.""
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently trading at $1,130, up 1.7%. Other major altcoins were in the green, with DOGE up 10% and SOL rising more than 5%.
Cryptos' price increases dovetailed with equity markets, which rose amid investors' likely temporary return to riskier assets. The tech-focused Nasdaq climbed 2.5%, while the S&P 500, which has a heavy tech component, rose by nearly the same.
Still, in a Monday report, Goldman Sachs economists upped the likelihood of a recession to 30% from their previous prediction of 15%. Investors will be nervously watching Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress on Wednesday and Thursday. Powell has been adamant about the Fed's more aggressive moves to tame U.S. inflation in raising interest rates and reducing liquidity in the economy.
Arca's Dorman said that he expects crypto investors to continue ""to hunker down,"" and that will translate to ""less growth from growth companies in the [crypto] space, in hiring and new product launches."" Last week, as bitcoin's price sank, investors redeemed a net $5.8 million from short bitcoin funds in the seven days through June 17, crypto asset manager CoinShares wrote Monday in a report. (A ""short"" position in financial markets is a bet on a price decline.)
Yet Dorman noted that the current crash differs significantly from earlier steep downturns in crypto's history because of the range of products and services now available. ""I think people are going to flock to DeFi much faster than anyone expected because it holds up,"" he said. He was sanguine about the prospects of a recovery this year.
""My guess would be we probably start to see higher prices in the second half of this year,"" he said. ""There really isn't a lot of carnage in the applications themselves.""
S&P 500: 3,764 +2.4%
DJIA: 30,530 +2.1%
Nasdaq: 11,069 +2.5%
Gold: $1,833 -0.3%
USDC's ‘Flippening’ of USDT and the Continuation of the Stablecoin Bear Market
Tether (USDT) has been of particular interest to the crypto industry after last month's collapse of LUNA, because like with UST, there has been a lot of skepticism about what exactly is backing it. Interest in the reserves that back USDT isn’t new, but the general crisis of confidence in crypto has placed more pressure on USDT’s tenuous peg.
Recently, the number of transactions on USDC surpassed those on USDT. For long-time, stablecoin war observers, that's a substantial ""flippening."" USDT’s share of the supply of stablecoins in smart contracts is dropping fast. What began at around 20% in January is now dipping to 13%. But what is unexpected is that USDC, which doesn’t have the same questions about its reserves as they are properly held in trust, is also seeing its price drop.
This is largely a product of the primary use case for stablecoins, DeFi platforms have seen their locked-in value decline significantly since the beginning of the year. What was once a $236 billion market when the year began, according to DeFiLlama, now has only $74 billion locked in as traders flee.
With that comes a big decline in the number of active addresses on both USDT and USDC, which is to be expected because the liquidity contributed to these protocols is often in stablecoins.
But again, all this seems to be a problem localized in the worlds of DeFi and stablecoins. Even as the price of bitcoin declines as institutions and miners sell, retail investors continues to buy what they can with the number of wallets containing more than 0.1 BTC rising from 3.4 million as of May 16 to around 3.6 million by Tuesday, according to Glassnode data.
So while there might be trouble in the land of digitized dollars and DeFi, there’s still confidence in digital gold (though its analog version might have been a better investment).
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
Point Zero Forum in Switzerland
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): UK consumer price index (MoM/YoY/May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Outlook, Who’s Buying the Big Dip? The First US Short Bitcoin-Linked ETF
Bitcoin bounced back to over $21,000. But how long will the relief rally last? Simeon Hyman of ProShares Global joined ""All About Bitcoin"" to discuss the bitcoin market and the ProShares Short Bitcoin Strategy ETF that launched today. Also, Nelson Hsieh of Volt Equity weighed in on the bipartisan crypto bill introduced by Sens. Cynthia Lummis (R.-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D.-N.Y.). Volt Equity believes it could it be a boon for the bitcoin mining industry.
'Enormous Outflows' From Largest Bitcoin ETF May Have Triggered BTC Crash: The Canadian Purpose Bitcoin ETF lost half of its assets last Friday likely because of a huge liquidation, an Arcane Research analyst said in a note.
CoinShares Report Shows Major Outflows From Bitcoin Short Funds: Digital-asset investment products see $39 million in outflows last week, with total assets under management reaching their lowest level since February 2021.
Miner Bitfarms Sold Almost Half Its Bitcoin to Reduce Debt: The miner sold 3,000 BTC in the past week to improve liquidity and reduce indebtedness.
BlockFi Receives $250M Credit Facility From FTX: The proceeds will be used to fulfill client balances across all accounts.
Solana NFT Marketplace Magic Eden Raises $130M at $1.6B Valuation: The large raise comes during an otherwise downcast crypto climate.
FUD or Facts? Terra, Celsius Show Value of Asking Questions: Kicking the tires on crypto projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow.
Other voices: A crypto lending app tried to take over a ‘whale’ account to stop it from collapsing the system (CNBC)
3oSE...uRbE has started moving funds (Solent Protocol for lending and borrowing on Solana/Twitter) ... ""One thing most people don't fully grasp: it takes years, often decades, to go from a new infrastructure-level technology breakthrough (like crypto) to a vibrant ecosystem of mainstream applications. (Paradigm co-founder Fred Ehrsam) ... ""Today @BlockFi signed a term sheet with @FTX_Official to secure a $250M revolving credit facility providing us with access to capital that further bolsters our balance sheet and platform strength. (BlockFi CEO Zac Prince/Twitter) ... ""Approval of an ETF that provides inverse exposure to #Bitcoin futures could be a positive sign for #crypto. Here’s a 🧵 on why..."" (Grayscale Investments CEO Michael Sonnenshein)
CORRECTION (June 21, 2022, 23:58 UTC): Bitcoin's price over the weekend hit a two-year low."
140,169,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/21/cbdcs-not-crypto-will-be-cornerstone-of-future-monetary-system-bis-says/,"CBDCs, Not Crypto, Will Be Cornerstone of Future Monetary System, BIS Says",A 42-page chapter in the Bank for International Settlements’ annual economic report envisions a future where programmability and tokenization are built on top of central bank digital currencies.,2022-06-21,"Crypto’s structural flaws make it an unsuitable basis for a monetary system, according to the Bank for International settlements (BIS). Instead, monetary systems could be built around central bank digital currencies (CBDCs), which are digital representations of central bank money.
The BIS, an association of the world’s major central banks, dedicates a 42-page chapter in its ""2022 Annual Economic Report"" to laying out a blueprint for the future of the global monetary system. In that vision, there is room for only some of crypto’s underlying technical features, like programmability and tokenization, not for cryptocurrencies themselves.
“Our broad conclusion is captured in the motto, ‘Anything that crypto can do, CBDCs can do better,’” said Hyun Song Shin, an economic adviser and head of research at the BIS, during a press briefing on Monday.
The chapter, which will be published Tuesday ahead of the full report, identifies a number of limitations of crypto, including the lack of a stable nominal anchor. In monetary policy that is a variable – such as a currency peg – that can be used to control price levels.
Stablecoins, cryptocurrencies pegged to the value of assets like sovereign currencies, are the crypto world’s search for such an anchor, Shin said. Stablecoins attempt to “piggyback on the stability of real money issued by central banks.”
Shin said the recent crash of terraUSD, a dollar stablecoin with a market capitalization of $18 billion in early May that rapidly lost its peg, illustrated how stablecoins, despite their name, are unstable and don’t make good units of account. Unlike other leading stablecoins, such as USDC and USDT, which are reportedly backed by dollar-denominated reserves, terraUSD is an algorithmic stablecoin backed by another cryptocurrency (in this case LUNA) with an algorithm in place to regulate supply and demand of the stablecoin and maintain its peg.
“The second important finding is that crypto and stablecoins fail to achieve the full network effects that we normally expect of money,” Shin said.
Money, Shin said, is the perfect example of a virtuous circle of greater use and greater acceptance. Crypto’s decentralized nature, on the other hand, achieves exactly the opposite, namely fragmentation.
In early June, BIS economists published a paper arguing that crypto cannot fulfill the role of money because costly transactions and scalability restrictions lead to the crypto world splitting into competing blockchains and ecosystems.
“Network effects mean ‘the more, the merrier.’ Crypto achieves the opposite: ‘the more, the sorrier’.”
In the BIS blueprint for future monetary systems, CBDCs play the role of stable digital currencies used in settlements, transfers and payments. But CBDC projects are still in early stages in most major economies, with China ahead of the curve with its digital yuan.
At the briefing, Shin responded with optimism to questions on his confidence in CBDCs and the progress made so far in BIS’ own experiments, noting that countries were choosing to issue CBDCs despite having robust payments systems.
“You know, India has one of the best retail fast payment systems in the world. It's called UPI. And it's led the way in actually showing the way on how these systems will actually operate. But India has decided to go to the final step and actually roll out a retail CBDC,” Shin said, referring to a CBDC that can be used by consumers for transactional purposes.
The paper acknowledges crypto’s contributions to technological advances, calling new developments a “radical departure” from existing systems. However, according to the report, technical capabilities that arose from innovations in the crypto space will only serve to strengthen the central bank monetary system.
“Programmability, composability and tokenization are not the preserve of crypto, but can instead be built on top of central bank digital currencies (CBDCs), fast payment systems and associated data architectures,” the report said.
The full report will be published June 26."
141,172,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/23/skybridges-scaramucci-bitcoin-is-technically-oversold/,SkyBridge’s Scaramucci: Bitcoin Is ‘Technically Oversold’,"The investment fund founder was philosophical about recent crypto debacles, including the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin and luna token that supported it.",2022-06-23,"Given bitcoin’s (BTC) widening use in an increasing number of areas and the exponential growth of wallet activity, the crypto is “technically oversold” at current levels, Anthony Scaramucci, founder of investment firm SkyBridge Capital, said Thursday in a speech at the Collision conference in Toronto.
Scaramucci said investors may look back and recognize bitcoin being a “very cheap asset that we can take advantage of because of certain people being over-levered in the system.”
He said he was initially skeptical about bitcoin, though discussions years ago around digitizing the U.S. dollar spurred his interest in blockchain technology.
Scaramucci was philosophical about recent crypto debacles, including the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the luna token that supported it, and the liquidity problems afflicting crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. “I’ve seen those mistakes made several times,” he said.
Read more: Scaramucci’s SkyBridge Starts Fund for Bitcoin Mining
The former Trump administration director of communications who has more recently jumped into digital assets said that during macroeconomic periods of “easy money” where nascent industries or technologies, such as crypto, emerge, younger sector participants have a “tendency to do things that are excessive and overboard.""
SkyBridge has launched various bitcoin-related funds and also tried to garner approval for a spot bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF), which was rejected by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)."
142,264,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/23/stablecoins-could-still-dominate-post-terra-sp-says/,"Stablecoins Could Still Dominate Post-Terra, S&P Says","Not all stablecoins are alike, analysts note, but regulations may be needed to precipitate audits and investor fairness.",2022-06-23,"Stablecoins could become a systemic feature of the financial world in spite of the recent high-profile collapse of the Luna Foundation’s terraUSD, analysts at credit agency S&P Global Ratings said in a webinar Thursday.
Staffers at one of the world’s top-three rating agencies believe the technology, a supposedly stable source of value that offers a bridge to more volatile crypto assets, could still transform international finance and global trade – even if recent market turbulence has shown some coins are more stable than others.
For S&P Global Chief Economist Paul Gruenwald, the dramatic devaluation of terra – supposedly equal in value to the U.S. dollar at one time, but now essentially worthless – was proof that crypto issuers need to jump through the same hoops as conventional finance.
Traditional financiers will ruthlessly exploit any currency that makes spurious promises about its ability to maintain value, and crypto markets are no different, he said.
“The same sort of rules apply – the same centrality of credibility applies” in crypto as in traditional finance, Gruenwald noted, saying assets linked to the dollar “are going to need sort of high quality, liquid U.S. dollar assets in some sort of backing portfolios to make sure that regime is credible.”
That pretty much does it for terra-style algorithmic models – in which the asset is supposedly backed by an algorithm designed to ensure supply tracks demand, said Mohamed Damak, S&P's senior director for Middle East and African Financial Institutions.
“I think people have realized to some extent that this type of stablecoin cannot really be called stable,” Damak said. Even for those coins that seek to assure value through actual assets, “they are not all equal because the question mark is on the quality of the assets backing them, whether it's audited frequently or not, and by whom.”
Stablecoins still have a future, however, not least because international payments using the conventional banking system are so slow and expensive, said Harry Hu, a senior director responsible for S&P’s ratings of Chinese financial institutions.
“Stablecoins have the potential to become systemic, primarily because traditional finance has not really kept up with innovation,” Hu said.
Damak also reckons that countries issuing their own central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) could change how they trade.
“For example: A country helps another country to develop its financial infrastructure as long as the second country would use the CBDC of the first country in order to transact internationally,” Damak said. “That could definitely change some of the ways international trade is conducted today.”
These remarks imply a future generation of digital coins becoming vital to the financial system – a success that would likely come at a cost as regulators seek to stamp out any risks that could cause a 2008-style crash.
“The credibility of this stablecoin industry going forward is going to have to involve some sort of external, credible, regular audit of the asset side of the balance sheet,” Gruenwald said, so investors know that any pegged currency has a portfolio of assets to back it.
While some stablecoin issuers already hold those audits voluntarily, Gruenwald also pointed to a recent bill from Sen. Pat Toomey (R–Penn.) that would have mandated them.
Read more: US Stablecoin Law Could Actually Pass This Year, Lawmakers Say
Regulation could also seek to protect consumers, given that, if there is a crash, crypto whales with large holdings might end up getting a better deal, leaving smaller investors to carry the cost.
“Not every holder of stablecoin is white-listed for fiat conversion… this creates an un-level playing field and opens the system up for potential manipulation,” Hu said.
Under the current system, those with inside access could still trade at the advertised price even as it crashes for the rest of the market – creating an arbitrage opportunity that regulators might need to put a stop to, Hu said."
143,257,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/23/us-banking-watchdog-says-crypto-turmoil-reinforces-cautious-approach/,US Banking Watchdog Says Crypto Turmoil Reinforces Cautious Approach,Acting Comptroller of the Currency Michael Hsu says the industry’s recent drama makes his agency more confident about limiting banks’ exposure to crypto.,2022-06-23,"Michael Hsu, acting chief of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), said the recent fireworks in the crypto industry have further cemented his resistance to allowing lenders unfettered exposure to the digital assets markets.
Hsu is one of the top U.S. banking regulators, and his reluctance to open up the wider financial system to crypto has been a significant hurdle in the industry’s push toward regulation. That view isn’t about to change, thanks to what he’s been seeing.
“There are some vulnerabilities and risks in that space that do warrant a cautious and careful approach,” Hsu told reporters on a call about his agency’s Semiannual Risk Perspective (released Thursday), which again highlighted digital assets as a space that could pose dangers to lenders in the U.S. The agency has been closely watching what’s been going on in the sector, including the sudden collapse of TerraUSD, officials said.
“It kind of reinforced where we've been this whole time,” Hsu said, pointing to earlier OCC guidance that instructed bankers to get approval from the agency before they get into new crypto activities. He said he’ll continue pursuing a “deliberative, cautious and careful approach to crypto.”
Other OCC officials on the call said that watching the meltdown of the algorithmic stablecoin and other industry troubles has taught regulators a lot about crypto – especially the confusing use of language in this space. When it comes to the custody of customer funds, the OCC has noted exchanges trying to explain themselves on what custody means for them, which is very different from what it means for banking. They added that industry disclosures continue to be a concern, because customers may not understand what they’re getting into.
Read more: US Fed Evaluating SEC’s Position on Digital Assets Custody, Powell Says"
144,259,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/23/brussels-fledgling-crypto-industry-flexes-its-muscles/,Brussels’ Fledgling Crypto Industry Flexes Its Muscles,"The city that hosts the EU also wants to influence it, with key decisions upcoming on the regulation of NFTs and DeFi.",2022-06-23,"The crypto community in the city of Brussels is attempting to amplify the voice of its fledgling crypto ecosystem, as European Union negotiators reach the closing stages of landmark licensing laws for 27 countries.
As capital of Belgium and, in effect, of the European Union, Brussels hosts a small Web3 community that's attempting to get its act together in have its voice heard – as neighboring capitals such as Paris have already done.
The inaugural Brussels Blockchain Week, which began Monday, saw repeated vows to not let the current bear market get in the way of optimism about the sector.
“Some, and many at the European Commission, will see the recent crypto market downturn as the evidence that this was just one big Ponzi scheme, that this was bound to end in tears, that we're seeing the beginning of the end,” said Peter Kerstens, a policy adviser at the EU’s executive arm, in a speech Monday. “I don't see that.”
Kerstens said that, given the transformational potential of the underlying distributed technology, he personally remained “very, very bullish about blockchain, crypto and Web3.”
Recent crypto market turbulence has spelled trouble for initiatives some thought of as the future of crypto finance – like lender Celsius and stablecoin terraUSD. But some in Brussels’ crypto industry argue that this is a mere filtering out of the froth, allowing markets to discover the businesses that add genuine value.
“What is amazing about this market today is that all the sugar is gone,” Kevin de Patoul, CEO of Keyrock, told the audience, comparing the hype about Bored Ape and currencies going to the moon to the eye-catching frosting on a donut.
Read more: EU's Crypto Activism Gets Mixed Reception at Paris Blockchain Week
With the crypto crash, “you only see the real thing, which means that you actually did what makes sense … what actually has value in the long term and what doesn't. And that is basically the promise of blockchain,” he said.
The crypto world is becoming increasingly positive about Europe. Germany topped a recent list of the world’s most crypto-friendly jurisdictions; Binance is now suggesting recent registrations in France and Italy could be the start of something bigger.
“I can imagine a situation where if things keep going the way they are going, we might eventually end up with headquarters in Europe,” Martin Bruncko, the executive vice-president for Europe of Binance – the world’s leading crypto exchange – told the conference attendees.
For companies like Keyrock, Belgium itself may not be the draw. Although his company, and around half of its 70 staffers, are based in the country, de Patoul is open about the fact that it’s not the most dynamic of locations for crypto.
As a blockchain company in Belgium, “you're one of the one of the few,” de Patoul told CoinDesk. “Brussels is not one of the financial centers of the world.”
But the company – a market-maker that helps traders secure liquidity in favored crypto asset markets – can still serve its global market from a Belgian base, aided by cooperation from the national central bank and regulator Financial Services and Market Authority, he says.
The attitude of regulators has “very positively evolved since we started in 2017,” de Patoul said. “Now it's a lot more positive and they really know their stuff.”
Belgium appears to be following in the footsteps of its neighbor France, where the crypto industry has gathered together to make its political voice heard, and which annually hosts the equivalent event, Paris Blockchain Week.
But maybe Brussels has one thing Paris doesn’t. As seat of the EU institutions, it also offers the company proximity to policymakers, he said – people like Kerstens, and the lawmakers and negotiators developing the legal framework that could last for years to come, such as the EU’s flagship Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA).
In terms of political influence, “clearly being here does have a positive impact,” he said, adding that rules like MiCA are “going in the right direction, simply a bit too slow for our taste.”
Talks on MiCA – which lets crypto issuers market across Europe if they publish a white paper of information for investors – are reaching their final stages, with key questions still hanging about how to treat areas like decentralized finance (DeFi) and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs).
“We have many bad ideas” on how to regulate DeFi, said Kerstens, because it overturns conventional financial-regulation norms that usually identify a central entity to hold responsible. “If you have good ideas … don't be shy, come and see us.”
Read more: NFT Issuers Could Have to Centralize and Register Under EU's MiCA Rules, France Warns
But Kerstens, adviser for technological innovation and cybersecurity at the European Commission’s financial-services arm, does want to regulate at least some aspects of NFTs.
Despite crypto industry protests against treating Bored Ape differently from offline art markets, officials believe they need to deal with financial-market abuses such as wash trades, in which brokers and traders collude to manipulate prices.
“We accept that it's silly to do a white paper for every non-fungible token,” Kerstens said. “But when you look at the service provisions – the custody of non-fungible tokens, the exchange, the brokerage, the advice – what really is the difference between custody of an NFT and custody of bitcoin and custody of Ethereum? It's the same thing; it's the same service.”
How those issues are resolved could prove crucial to the future of Web3 in Belgium, and the EU’s 26 other member countries too. But in many cases, Belgian crypto companies’ woes stem not from the supranational bloc, but from homegrown problems like taxes.
Belgium takes the highest labor taxes of all developed countries measured by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – a problem for any entrepreneurial startup looking to hire – but also there’s uncertainty over how to tax crypto gains, which depends on whether trading is deemed professional or mere household budget management.
Others, like Florian Ernotte, an associate at law firm Avroy Avocats and founder of the site cryptomonnaie.be, also point to the lack of legal recognition for decentralized autonomous organizations, the groups that set up DeFi applications, a lacuna that he says may hamper competitiveness.
One of the lawmakers who might try to change all that is Christophe De Beukelaer, a crypto enthusiast who is also a member of the Brussels Parliament for the centrist Les Engagés party and co-founder of Brussels Blockchain Week.
In January, De Beukelaer tweeted that he would take his salary in bitcoin (BTC) in a bid to raise awareness of innovative assets as a store of value.
Since then, the currency’s value has halved – though he says he’s unmoved by the rises and falls in the market. That may also be because, in practice, he takes a conventional euro paycheck that he then converts into BTC each month, partly insulating himself from market swings.
While originally inviting hostility from colleagues, some of whom De Beukelaer says branded him an “anarchist,” he also believes his advocacy has begun to raise awareness and curiosity about the potential of crypto – which he remains convinced can make finance fairer.
“My entry point is the realization that we are in a very unfair financial world: Many people don't have access,” he told CoinDesk, adding that crypto offered transparency and the same rules for everyone. “In Belgium and also in Europe, you have very few people who have access to the financial markets.”
As a lawmaker in what is effectively the city administration for a capital of around 1.2 million, De Beukelaer concedes he has limited powers to effect change. But he hopes Belgium can use its forthcoming EU presidency, during which it will chair meetings of the bloc’s member states in the first half of 2024.
“I want to work with other members of Parliament on that to be sure we … have a real impact on important legislation at a European level, to make two or three breakthroughs on Web3,” he said.
As to whether he has the support of the federal government – or the country’s other, bigger regions of Flanders and Wallonia – to pursue that goal, he is candid.
“Not yet,” he said. “But I'm working on it.”"
145,176,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/24/why-the-crypto-crash-will-accelerate-regulatory-action/,Why the Crypto Crash Will Accelerate Regulatory Action,Recent events that have sent digital assets deeper into a bear market may also instill lawmakers with a new urgency to address issues that have been gnawing at the industry.,2022-06-24,"In March, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said it's “easy to see the risks” of cryptocurrencies, and warned that central banks “don’t know how some digital products will behave in times of market stress.”
What they have seen lately will not give them comfort. The sudden and rapid collapse of popular crypto projects sheds light on the house-of-cards nature of many crypto products and provides the perfect ""told you so” moment for already-wary regulators.
Tracy Basinger is a senior adviser at Klaros, a financial advisory and investment firm.
Jonah Crane is a partner at Klaros.
First, in early May, TerraUSD, an algorithmic stablecoin, rapidly collapsed, erasing billions of dollars of value in just a few short days. Then Celsius halted redemptions by customers who had deposited funds, and is believed to be nearing insolvency. The drastic moves by Celsius – and forced liquidations of leveraged positions – roiled crypto markets. Bitcoin briefly touched $20,000 and is down more than 70% since its November 2021 peak.
These debacles and the uneasiness they have caused will likely instill regulators and policymakers with a new sense of urgency to address issues that have gnawed at the crypto industry. But these problems and the decline in crypto prices could also present a great opportunity to create a clearer path forward. They come against a backdrop of already-accelerating regulatory pressure.
In August 2021, the federal banking agencies launched crypto “sprints” and, in the fall of 2021, laid out their agenda for 2022. In November 2021, the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets (PWG), released a report detailing risks associated with stablecoins, including the risk of a panic akin to a bank run, and called on Congress to pass new legislation limiting stablecoin issuance to insured banks. Then in March 2022, President Biden issued an executive order on digital assets. The report acknowledged potential benefits of innovation in digital assets, but emphasized the downsides: The word “risk” appeared 47 times.
Read More: As Federal Agencies Organize, US States Continue to Lead in Regulating Digital Assets
A wide range of state and federal regulators have weighed in following the implosion of Terra, and again following Celsius’ troubles and the broader market collapse. After the Terra collapse, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen called for a “comprehensive framework” governing stablecoins and urged Congress to act. Subsequently, the SEC was reported to be investigating the marketing of TerraUSD by Terraform Labs.
Just days after Celsius halted redemptions, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Gary Gensler cautioned that crypto platforms promising high returns may be too good to be true. Meanwhile, state securities regulators in Alabama, Kentucky, New Jersey, Texas and Washington have opened an investigation into Celsius’ actions. After Terra’s failure, Gensler announced the agency would add 20 investigators and litigators to its unit dedicated to cryptocurrency and cybersecurity enforcement.
In addition, more than 40 states have some type of crypto legislation in place or pending in their legislature. And California Gov. Gavin Newsom recently issued an executive order on cryptocurrencies, mapping out a comprehensive regulatory framework for digital assets.
This latest market crash reveals just how much consumers could lose – two trillion dollars of crypto asset's market cap have been wiped out. And both Terra and Celsius provide glaringly bad examples of the fragile financial engineering mixed with hyperaggressive promotion that has led regulators to see echoes of past financial crises.
The collapse of the Terra stablecoin and resulting market volatility will leave regulators who have been warning of the risks associated with crypto feeling vindicated. Terra experienced the equivalent of an old-fashioned bank run when investors began to lose confidence that they would always be able to redeem their token for a dollar. That’s exactly what the PWG (and many others, including Sam Bankman-Fried) warned would happen.
Moreover, Terra achieved its scale (roughly $18 billion in circulation at its peak) because it could be deposited into a yield protocol and earn up to 20% interest. Acting Comptroller of the Currency Michael Hsu recently compared yield farming to Ponzi schemes – and he’s not alone. The Anchor Protocol promised UST depositors 20% yields, with no realistic way to continue paying out interest if money stopped flooding in. Celsius used its borrowed assets as collateral to borrow more and make a series of risky bets – including investing in the Anchor Protocol – in search of returns to meet its promise to pay “depositors” 8%.
Read More: Defining Cryptocurrency Regulation Important for the Industry to Grow: Morgan Stanley
Finally, both Terra and Celsius caused volatility across crypto markets – a foreshadowing of the significant spillover effects that might occur if, say, Tether were to collapse. This kind of financial contagion risk is exactly what regulators try to prevent.
At this point, crypto companies should assume regulation is inevitable. If the industry wants to help itself, it must be at the table. But more than that, industry leaders must be willing to overhaul the way large portions of these markets work.
On stablecoins, industry leaders should clearly distinguish among different models and begin a dialogue about the ways in which certain models, and certain regulatory reforms, could achieve the regulators’ policy objectives. Amid the Terra crash, the market clearly viewed certain stablecoins – namely, 100% dollar-backed coins – as more stable than others. And yet Tether, which has broken the buck multiple times in recent weeks, remains a critical element of a major portion of crypto market activity.
For their part, regulators, too, should begin to recognize that not all stablecoins are created equal. Regulators were right to warn of “run risks” inherent in stablecoins, but have done little to distinguish between stablecoins and “unstable” coins. The New York Department of Financial Services, which regulates two stablecoin issuers, released public guidance requiring stablecoin reserves to be held in safe and liquid assets and be subject to independent attestations. This guidance provides an excellent foundation for developing a truly stable framework.
Hsu issued a call for public-private collaboration on developing stablecoin standards. That is an invitation the industry should accept.
More broadly, there needs to be a reckoning within the industry. The desire for open and decentralized crypto markets makes many participants averse to prescriptive rules. But inherently fragile products have served to accelerate and multiply the damage of a crypto downturn. Industry leaders should take advantage of the crypto winter to clear the underbrush that could be the kindling for the next inferno. It’s time to recognize that many products simply aren’t consistent with fair and orderly markets.
Read More: Here's the Full Text of Biden's Executive Order on Cryptocurrency"
146,260,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/24/the-case-for-suing-celsius-terraform-labs/,"The Case for Suing Celsius, Terraform Labs",A securities lawyer discusses the duty of care crypto lenders may have for customer deposits and whether UST's founders misled the public.,2022-06-24,"After a series of apparent collapses, defaults and liquidity crises across protocols like Terra and crypto-affiliated lending platforms and hedge funds, we’re seeing the first signs of what is likely to be a wave of legal action from users and investors who lost money.
But those cases will require navigating some tricky questions. Because lending protocols in particular have been studiously vague in describing the exact nature of their services, it's not clear what sort of responsibilities these companies have when it comes to depositor's funds.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
“The jury is still out on that,” according to Marcelo Diaz-Cortes, a securities litigation lawyer with the Miami-based firm LKLSG. Diaz-Cortes contrasts currently distressed crypto projects with straightforward fraud cases he’s helped litigate, such as Argyle Coin, a supposedly diamond-backed token that was in reality a Ponzi scheme. “It was a straight fraud – it didn’t really exist.”
That wasn’t the case with the most dramatic collapse of recent weeks, the unwinding of the TerraUSD “algorithmic stablecoin” in May. That token’s design was so deeply flawed that its demise was easy for experts to predict – but its mechanism was described transparently and, it seems, mostly accurately.
“It wasn’t a secret as to how the thing functioned,” Diaz-Cortes said. “If that was the way it really worked, [judging it fraudulent] would be a tough sell for a court, for a jury.”
That doesn’t mean there’s no case. In standard securities cases, fraud can still be found “when someone at the company or promoting it had a little extra knowledge and didn’t disclose it,” according to Diaz-Cortes.
A court might, for instance, examine statements from Do Kwon or Terraform Labs about transitioning UST to a backed model, or rumors that the token was secretly bailed out by third parties when it previously lost its peg in May of 2021. Either could imply that, despite public statements, the team knew its creation didn’t actually work as advertised.
Another good sign for anyone pursuing relief directly from Terra’s creators is that they appear to now be under investigation in Korea, one of the group’s centers of operation. While such investigations are usually kept under wraps until they conclude, they can still provide firepower for plaintiffs.
“It’s certainly something we put in our complaints,” Diaz-Cortes said. “Look, the government’s sniffing, the government filed an action. … At hearings, we’ll point to it as circumstantial evidence of something fishy going on.”
Some wiped-out Lunatics have instead focused legal firepower on the exchanges, with one class-action suit targeting Binance.US, an exchange that sold the UST token and described it, according to the complaint, as “safe.” Diaz-Cortes believes such suits against exchanges could have legs if an exchange or other promoter was “not completely forthright about the potential [risk] exposure.”
See also: What Crypto Can Learn From Elizabeth Holmes' Fraud | Opinion
The same group of plaintiffs, which includes pseudonymous Terra victim and researcher Fatman, has said it will also file suit against Terraform Labs, the entity that created a litany of apps – like the lending protocol Anchor – that used the LUNA and UST tokens. That possibility highlights one of the key underlying points in the Terra case: Despite leaning on the rhetoric of “decentralization,” Terra was tightly controlled by a small inner group. That could in and of itself become further grounds for claims of misrepresentation and fraud.
The “lending platform” Celsius could be accused of similarly exaggerated claims – while it tied itself rhetorically to DeFi, or decentralized finance, it is an entirely centralized entity that merely acted as an intermediary to DeFi. That also makes it a ripe target for lawsuits after it froze withdrawals – potentially a prelude to default.
One early, if flaccid, signal came from YouTube influencer BitBoy, who last week announced his intent to file a class action against Celsius after it froze his funds. Just days later, BitBoy withdrew the proposal after remembering that he had been paid to promote Celsius, as he was for years paid directly to promote scams. This is the epitome of the extremely useful expression “hoisted by his own petard.” Truly a shame.
Regardless, more competent actors are sure to draw a bead on Celsius. The problem is that it and similar “lending platforms” have avoided clear classification and regulation. Depositors seeking high yields often used these platforms as crypto banks, despite the lack of regulation and consumer protections.
In fact, recent regulatory actions taken against interest-bearing accounts at lending platform BlockFi characterize the offerings as unregistered securities. BlockFi itself isn’t facing quite the same financial problems as Celsius, so it might not wind up a target of private lawsuits. But if a court thinks Celsius or a similar platform were also actually selling securities rather than banking services, it could be harmful for depositors because buying a security doesn’t imply any right to redeem it for a specific price.
Another legal question is what Celsius actually did with depositors’ money to earn the yield it passed onto them. As CoinDesk reported this month, the platform began pursuing increasingly risky strategies starting in early 2021, including sending client funds to volatile DeFi “yield farms,” later including Luna’s Anchor protocol.
Though Celsius apparently withdrew funds from Anchor before the Terra collapse, the general investment strategy could face scrutiny in court.
Under conventional banking law, there’s no duty to disclose the loans or other strategies used to generate yield on customer deposits.
“[Banks] don’t owe customers special duties of care. They just owe those deposits back when you ask for it,” Diaz-Cortes said. “You’re not able to bring in issues as to, ‘you shouldn’t have done this with the money.’”
He added that “it’s just a black and white thing” whether banks can meet their obligations and “not necessarily fraud” if they’ve re-hypothecated funds.
See also: How the Feds Are Prosecuting an NFT Insider Trading Scheme | Opinion
But that’s only true up to a certain point. “The question will be whether they did something reckless, fraudulent and irresponsible” with client funds, Diaz-Cortes said. “It’s going to come down to what they knew and what was happening behind the curtain.”
Alternatively, plaintiffs might argue that Celsius wasn’t a bank at all but rather a broker investing on their behalf.
“In terms of these crypto deposit accounts, they’re a little bit of both [bank and brokerage],” Diaz-Cortes said. “You’re not just putting $10 in and expecting $10 back. You’re leaving it there [to earn] interest.”
That could lower the bar for what counts as fraud, according to Diaz-Cortes. “With brokerage accounts, sometimes you do get those claims that this was advertised as a safe investment, and you breached the duty.”"
147,266,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/27/recent-crypto-bloodbath-is-not-necessarily-bad-regulators-say/,"Recent Crypto 'Bloodbath' Is Not Necessarily Bad, Regulators Say","The downturn can help weed out shady characters and doomed ventures, a number of officials and entrepreneurs said at a forum in Zurich last week.",2022-06-27,"Crypto executives and regulators don’t often see eye to eye, but they seem to agree that the recent crypto market turmoil could prove to be positive for the industry by helping filter out unsustainable projects and bad actors.
At least that was the prevailing consensus at the inaugural Point Zero Forum, an invite-only meeting of investors and policymakers that took place in Zurich last week.
Crypto’s total market capitalization is about $1 trillion, down from an October high of $2.7 trillion, according to CoinGecko data.
“There’s a bloodbath going on,” Ravi Menon, managing director of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, said at a panel on the future of financial services on Wednesday, referring to the billions of dollars – and companies – leaving the market.
The collapse of the once $18 billion algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) in May sent shock waves through the industry. Since then, hedge fund Three Arrows Capital revealed it had suffered heavy losses while multibillion-dollar crypto lender Celsius Network froze withdrawals.
Prominent crypto firms around the world, including U.S.-based Coinbase and Gemini as well as Europe’s Bitpanda, have slashed hiring.
Menon says the exodus could help weed out bad actors.
“This is not necessarily bad,” Menon said. “For a regulator, a central bank, it’s a great opportunity to separate the wheat from the chaff.”
Read more: How Crypto Lender Celsius Overheated
Also on the panel, Jon Cunliffe, a deputy governor at the Bank of England, likened the market crash to the dot-com bubble, where excessive speculation led to U.S. tech stock valuations ballooning in the 1990s before the bubble burst in 2000.
“A lot of companies went, but the technology didn't go away, and it came back 10 years later,” Cunliffe said, pointing to survivors such as Amazon. “So whatever happens over the next few months to crypto assets that people trade, I expect crypto technology and finance to continue.”
The recent market meltdown underlines the growing urgency for establishing regulations for the industry.
On June 7, U.S. Sens. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) introduced a wide-ranging bill that would govern crypto-asset service providers and includes detailed disclosure requirements for stablecoin issuers in light of Terra’s downfall.
The European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) bill, which also lays out requirements for stablecoin issuers, is moving ahead in the legislative process and the U.K. announced in April that it was planning to introduce a regulatory package for crypto and to regulate stablecoins under existing payments legislation.
Crypto firms and regulators need to put the effort into make the industry more sustainable, Agustín Carstens, general manager of the Bank for International Settlements, a central bank-owned financial institution, said during the conference in Zurich.
“The degree of leverage in many of these transactions is completely abnormal,” Carstens said during a panel on the future of financial services. “You cannot defy gravity. You are running an extremely risky operation. If something goes a little bit wrong, the possibility of crashing is very high.”
Read more: Why the Crypto Crash Will Accelerate Regulatory Action
Several crypto heavyweights in attendance said the market crash was a welcome correction.
“I welcome this downturn,” Kris Marszalek, CEO of digital assets exchange Crypto.com, said during a panel on the future of crypto. “This is the time to demonstrate how the real [companies in crypto] can continue building [and] be the steady hand, the calming voice, during volatile times and just deliver real value.”
Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of fintech Ripple Labs, said that the downturn could weed out tokens that have no utility: “I think the vast majority of tokens will go away over a period of time, because I can't figure out the utility … Dogecoin is a clear example of [something that was] never designed with utility, the founders have left the project [and] it moves based upon the tweets of Elon Musk.”
During his panel, Changpeng Zhao, CEO of Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume, suggested that crypto entrepreneurs need to have a clear business model.
“If you're only getting users because you're using incentives to attract users, that's not a real business model. Eventually, you're going to run out of money and you will crash,"" Zhao said during a panel on Wednesday on weathering the storm and the next phase of growth.
The industry will take a long time to recover but “the worst part is probably over,” Zhao said.
Read more: Crypto Winter Is Here. The Weak Will Die, and the Strong Will Eat Their Bones
Jack Schickler and Sandali Handagama contributed reporting."
148,263,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/27/crypto-hedge-funds-traders-short-tether-after-usts-implosion-report/,"Crypto Hedge Funds, Traders Short Tether After UST’s Implosion: Report","The positions are worth at least “hundreds of millions” of dollars in notional value, one trader said.",2022-06-27,"Crypto-focused hedge funds are increasingly shorting U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin tether (USDT) amid a bleak market outlook nearly a month after the implosion of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, the Wall Street Journal said in a report on Monday.
“There has been a real spike in the interest from traditional hedge funds who are taking a look at tether and looking to short it,” Leon Marshall, head of institutional sales at Genesis Global Trading, said in a statement. Marshall added the positions were worth at least “hundreds of millions” of dollars.
Genesis and CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of Digital Currency Group.
Genesis said short positions increased after the multibillion-dollar implosion of UST. Prices of the algorithmically controlled stablecoin plunged to a few pennies in late May, causing contagion risks that affected prominent crypto lenders and trading funds.
Some funds are shorting USDT as a bet against the broader economy as the U.S. Federal Reserve raises interest rates to curb 40-year-high inflation. Others are concerned about the quality of the assets backing tether, according to the Journal's report.
Stablecoins like tether are backed by fiat currencies and equivalent asset investments such as commercial paper, bank deposits, bonds, gold and cryptocurrencies, according to issuer Tether Global.
The stablecoin market has taken a hit since UST’s implosion in May with investors redeeming huge amounts of USDT. In mid-June, investors pulled $1.7 billion from tether in one week, as reported.
Tether’s market capitalization has fallen by over $20 billion since mid-May, CoinGecko data shows.
Funds like Fir Tree Partners and Viceroy Research have previously bet against tether, citing the opacity about the asset’s actual backing and the lack of audited reserves.
Tether officials, however, have denied such risks exist. In June, Tether said rumors of its portfolio being “85% backed by Chinese or Asian commercial paper” were “completely false” and likely perpetrated by those looking to generate “additional profits from an already stressed market.
In April, a Tether spokesperson told MarketWatch that short sellers seem to be involved in a “clever scheme to raise capital from those less knowledgeable, by leveraging on disinformation with the end goal of collecting a management fee.”"
149,262,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/28/us-wants-to-promote-responsible-innovation-deputy-treasury-secretary-says/,"US Wants to Promote 'Responsible Innovation,' Deputy Treasury Secretary Says",Adewale Adeyemo oversees much of the U.S. Treasury Department’s crypto work. He spoke to CoinDesk at Consensus about what he’s seeing and how he’s approaching the sector.,2022-06-28,"We brought some very interesting speakers to Consensus 2022 earlier this month. While I believe the plan is to publish the full videos in the near future, I’ve always found it easier to pick information up by reading it than by watching or listening to it. This week, I’m continuing my exploration into transcripts with snippets from two conversations held at Consensus: fireside chats with Deputy Treasury Secretary Adewale Adeyemo and Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
I sat down with Deputy Treasury Secretary Adewale Adeyemo earlier this month at CoinDesk’s Consensus 2022 for a fireside chat. I think it was quite enlightening, and I hope you do as well. To that end, some of the discussion is below.
Also: My colleague Zack Seward sat down with Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse. I’ve posted a partial transcript of that conversation as well.
Both Adeyemo and Garlinghouse have played significant roles in the crypto industry, particularly over the past 18 months.
These are only partial transcripts that have been edited for brevity. I’ll send around a link when we publish the full videos.
Nikhilesh De: We've all seen the President's Working Group report, and I know Treasury is working on reports related to that. Could you just provide an update: How are these reports looking? Are there any specific additional policy recommendations you think will come out of them? Or what are you looking at just with stablecoins in general now?
Adewale Adeyemo: I think the truth is that the President's Working Group laid out in lots of ways where we are in terms of stablecoins and went beyond just what Treasury was doing. But the President's Working Group reflected the views of regulators in the space, and it called for legislative action. Now we're engaged in conversations with members of Congress, across parties, because we know this is a bipartisan issue. What we can do here is to provide a regulatory framework that protects financial stability, but also, as we think about the digital asset space, I think it's important for us to think not only about financial stability but also about consumer and investor protections. How do we also think about national security? And how do we think about these things in a way that allows us to promote what I would call responsible innovation, and gives those people who are in this space the ability to innovate, within a sense of “this is the regulatory architecture that will govern here in the United States.”
While we're focused on the United States, I recognize that one of the benefits of digital assets is they're global in nature. And we want to make sure that in the United States, we lead in thinking about these regulatory issues. But in leading, we also bring the rest of the world along with us so that you're facing a regulatory regime that looks similar around the world, rather than differentiated.
As you alluded to, terraUSD and luna collapsed dramatically last month. Are algorithmic stablecoins, which weren't really mentioned in the working group report, something that you'll now be taking a look at? Is that something that Treasury will publish more reports on or recommend action on to prevent that from happening again?
I think the challenge that you have is when a stablecoin isn't very stable, that leaves people with a great deal of concern. Ultimately, one of the things that is true of digital assets, that's true of fiat currency, is that trust is a major part of this. You want to be in a position where people understand the products that they are dealing with. My view is that ultimately, that's why we think legislation in this area is needed in order to give regulators the authorities they need for stablecoins at large.
But I do think you have to look at algorithmic stablecoins and think through what kind of special disclosures, if any, need to be provided there. From my standpoint, one of the most important things we can do for consumers and investors is make sure that they understand the products that they are dealing with, not only in the digital asset space, but in all spaces. Providing them with information that allows them to make better choices is going to be critical here. I think that the reality is that people need to understand where they're putting their money, and what's backing it, frankly, going forward.
You also mentioned the unhosted wallet rule earlier, which I know was kind of put on the back burner in the beginning of 2021. Is that something you're seeing as a rule that the U.S. will actually look to implement? Or is that just more kind of like a framework that you're looking at for potential future rulemaking?
I'm not going to get ahead of our rulemaking process. But I do think that one of the things that we're focused on is how do we address the challenges that unhosted wallets create for national security and for illicit finance. We understand and respect the need for, and the desire to [have] privacy, but we need to make sure that we're also in a place where we're not creating avenues where those who want to move funds illicitly are able to use digital assets more than traditional assets.
We know that criminals and those who are looking to move funds illicitly don't only use digital assets, they use traditional assets as well. The thing we don't want to do is create an advantage for them to move into the digital space. That's not to your advantage, and it's not to our advantage. That's why we think that thinking about the travel rule and the unhosted wallet rule make sense. But we want to do it in a way that addresses the fact that the thing we know that the way we solve these challenges, the way we address them, is about innovation and making sure that we give you the room to innovate within a regulatory architecture that allows us to protect our national security, consumers, investors and financial stability.
Treasury is obviously working on policy recommendations around stablecoins. But a lot of the conversation that I've been hearing, at least from the folks I interact with, is there's this growing question of whether existing laws make sense for addressing digital assets. So that’s taxes, as we just mentioned, know your customer/anti-money laundering but also even some of the independent agencies and how they're approaching it. What are your thoughts? Does it make more sense to try and come up with a “from the ground” brand-new regulatory regime or are the existing rules sufficient?
Yeah, I think it's both. Honestly, you're going to need in some places additional legislation because when you envision some of the rulemakings, no one thought about digital assets. But in other places, we're going to be able to, if we're innovative and meet the innovation of industry, be able to find ways to bring digital assets into the regulatory regime that already exists.
I think this is like when we're trying to think about the travel rule. We think this is a place where we have the tools to be able to think through a regulatory regime that makes sense. I think you're right that all of the regulators are going through this conversation internally in terms of “how do we think about our regulatory regime” and how it applies to digital assets. There you may also see them take some regulatory steps, but also over time, you may also think about what additional regulation is going to be needed.
What I know to be true is something you all know far better than me, [which] is that the digital asset landscape that exists today is not going to be the same one that exists two years from now, three years from now, five years from now. I think the thing as regulators that we need to be able to do and policymakers we need to be able to do is to think through how we build a regulatory architecture that is flexible enough to create opportunities for that innovation in a way that is responsible, and gives people confidence that being engaged in this space is something that is happening within the rules of the road that people expect.
Are there any ideas, tools or projects in the sector that you're really paying attention to, that have your interest on a personal level?
I think the thing I'm paying attention to in this space, and the same thing I'm paying attention to, across the financial sector in general, is, what can we do in terms of financial inclusion? It's a major issue for me, not only internationally, I mentioned Afghanistan. But even think about here in the United States, there are so many places where you don't have access to finance. I think the question is, “how do we make the payment system more efficient and effective going forward?” I think the key is going to be how do we ensure that as more people participate, you have the right types of consumer protections in place, and you have the right types of transparency.
Ultimately, you want to be able to provide remittances at far lower cost to people. I know that there are communities all over this country where people are sending money back to families and other countries, and they are being charged a great deal of money to do that. What we can do to reduce the frictions and the cost and that space, I think it's critical. It's also critical in our country to think through how we can use digital assets to reduce the cost of transacting here. So those are the things that I'm paying the most attention to.
CoinDesk Deputy Editor-in-Chief Zachary Seward spoke to Ripple Labs CEO Brad Garlinghouse at Consensus 2022. A partial transcript follows.
Brad Garlinghouse: The headline for me is I feel like [the Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit] looks good in large part; I think it's very clear. The more that has come out, the facts are on our side. I think it's more and more clear [that] the law is on our side. But we have spent … when this is all said and done, we will have spent over $100 million on legal fees fighting the SEC, and the dynamic there is, in my opinion, the SEC bullies companies into settlement because they can't afford to fight.
The reason why this fight is so important isn't just for Ripple. It's really for the whole industry. It was literally four years ago this week that Bill Hinman, the [then] director of Corporation Finance at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, gave a speech saying that [ether] was not a security. And by the way, let me be clear, I do not think ETH is security. I don't think XRP is a security. But at the time we viewed this as “isn't it great that four years ago, we're starting to provide some leadership and some clarity.” And I view this as actually a very positive sign. I remember there's emails which now the SEC has read from our internal documents, where I sent the team a note saying, “Hey, this is great news. We now have clarity of how the SEC is thinking about this. They used some parameters around decentralization and what have you.”
Look at the fact that four years have gone by. And we still don't have clarity about how the SEC is going to say what is and is not a security. It's worse, actually. Now the SEC, the current chair, [Gary] Gensler is really walking back the statement around ETH. He has been asked directly “is ether a security,” [but] he won't answer the question. How can we be competitive in the United States in an industry where the primary regulator will not provide that clarity?
My experience in crypto is the vast, vast, vast majority of people want to do right by the rules. But you’ve got to know what the rules are. I think the Senate bill that you're describing, I think is a constructive step in that regard, and [can] provide some clarity. There's a bill that was introduced in the House side called the Digital Commodity Exchange Act, which we certainly have been very active advocates of.
I think maybe the most important thing is this is forward progress. I expect there will be some hearings around these bills, and when there's hearings that bring attention to the lack of clarity, and I think it catalyzes and builds momentum to win, I think it’s open for debate. I've talked to some very smart people that think realistically, either the House side or the Senate side, it’s you know, a year away before something gets passed, which, you know, that's a long time from now. And I think the U.S. every day is losing competitiveness, relative to other markets that have clear regulation, you know, clear leaning in.
So it's been 18 months, it's been a bit of stasis. But certainly, you've been doing a lot of work, the business of running this company does not stop, how are you describing the value proposition of Ripple Labs here in 2022?
We only work with regulated institutions, globally. Ninety-five percent of our customers are non-U.S. customers already. Certainly the U.S. case has – we've been able to have one or two contracts we signed here in the United States, but it's been slow going in the U.S. But the great news is demand for one of our core products, we call On Demand Liquidity – that's the product using XRP to move liquidity for institutions that grew already at a billion (dollar) run rate last year, that grew [eight times] year on year and Q1. The demand is clearly there.
And I think one of the opportunities for everyone in crypto is to make sure we're solving real problems. I get super excited about real-world enterprise solutions. NFTs [non-fungible tokens] are certainly an area that I think is here to stay. I maybe somewhat controversially said recently that I thought NFTs were underhyped. People were kind of surprised because they're pretty hyped. What I was calling out is I don't know how to think about NFTs in the context of [say,] is one artist better than the other? Is a Van Gogh worth more than Picasso? I don't know. What I do know is there's a lot of NFTs in terms of tokenization of assets, around real estate, around patent portfolios, around licensing rights. There's all kinds of stuff that I think NFTs will manifest in a way that is great for industries by reducing transaction costs, making these industries more efficient. That's where I think NFTs are underhyped, in terms of how they will integrate into our economy broadly.
I also will say … I think all boats rise, and one of the most frustrating things and you know, CoinDesk has certainly written about this, the tribalism in crypto is holding us all back. We just got to f**king stop it. We have to, we're all on the same team. I really believe that what's good for crypto is good for Ripple. I try to be really careful about, even on stuff that I feel like I don't understand, I'm not trying to bad mouth … But I think what's good for crypto is good for everybody in the industry. I think the tribalism holds us back in a really big way. I am a person who believes in climate change. I'm a person who believes that carbon production is something we got to pay attention to. Again, we're all on the same team here. I think the extent we can use more efficient technologies for solutions, then we should use those. I will pick on the Yuga Labs experience, the transaction fees – let's just boil down. Blockchains are all about removing middleman costs, right?
So the Yuga Labs experience, the transaction fees were 40%. I own bitcoin [BTC], I've said that publicly before, I own ETH, I own XRP, not surprisingly – I think all of them can do well. I think the energy dynamic is a real one. I think we should be intellectually honest about what the real math is, and what are the implications? … I didn't go sell bitcoin because it's proof-of-work.
It’s starting to seem unlikely we’ll see any rapid movement on filling in some of these current roles that have acting heads.
(I’ve actually been on vacation the last few days so this will remain blank.)
(This space intentionally left blank.)
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
150,97,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/28/new-york-community-bank-to-hold-assets-backing-circles-usdc/,New York Community Bank to Hold Assets Backing Circle's USDC,This marks the first time a community bank will serve as a custodian for a stablecoin.,2022-06-28,"New York Community Bank, a New York state-based community bank that also has branches in New Jersey, Florida and Ohio, will serve as a custodian for some of the reserve assets behind the USD coin (USDC) stablecoin, Circle, USDC's issuer, said Tuesday.
The two companies will also work on ""low-cost financial solutions for underserved and unbanked communities,"" according to a statement.
The partnership is part of Circle's push to include underrepresented financial institutions in the digital asset market and allocate a share of its reserves in minority-owned depository institutions.
USDC has distinguished itself from stablecoin competitors by forging closer ties with traditional banks and reportedly being more conservative in the selection of reserves, holding only U.S. dollar-denominated cash and short-term U.S. government bonds. It's the second-largest stablecoin after Tether's USDT with a circulating supply of $55 billion. It has taken market share from USDT since the implosion of the Terra blockchain.
Earlier this spring, Circle announced that BNY Mellon, one of the oldest and largest custodian banks in the U.S., would be the primary custodian for USDC reserves.
NYCB is a relatively small bank, managing $61 billion in assets, according to its website. By comparison, BNY Mellon's assets under custody amounts to $45 trillion.
In the long term, though, Circle says it aims to move ""billions of dollars in deposits over time"" to underrepresented financial institutions.
“By partnering with NYCB, we are opening up new pathways for community banks and MDIs across the country to be key participants in the fast growing digital assets market,"" Dante Disparte, Circle's chief strategy officer and head of global policy, said in the statement, referring to minority depositary institutions.
Read more: How Does USDC Work?"
151,99,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/28/market-wrap-finger-pointing-and-job-cuts-as-bitcoin-slides-back-toward-20k/,Market Wrap: Finger-Pointing and Job Cuts as Bitcoin Slides Back Toward $20K,"Bitcoin's price fell for a third straight day, and a rally in Chainlink's LINK token faded – as crypto industry recriminations kept coming and stocks slumped.",2022-06-28,"Hi, I'm Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the day's crypto market highlights and news.
Bitcoin (BTC) fell for a third straight day, drifting back down toward $20,000 and trading in sync with U.S. stocks.
There was no shortage of drama in the news as the crypto industry continued to address the fallout from the recent carnage in digital-asset markets. The price of BTC is now trading at less than a third of its all-time high around $69,000 late last year.
The CEO of the futures crypto exchange CoinFLEX accused the Bitcoin Cash supporter and noted investor Roger Ver of owing it $47 million in the stablecoin USDC. Ver had tweeted earlier Tuesday that ""some rumors have been spreading"" that he had defaulted on a debt to a counterparty; instead, he said, the counterparty ""owes me a substantial sum of money.""
And after a report emerged that the crypto exchange Huobi Global might cut over 30% of its workforce, an official at the rival exchange OKX announced plans for the company to increase its headcount by 30%.
""Over the past two weeks, we have seen the bear markets bringing out the worst,"" Walter Teng, digital asset strategy associate at the independent investment research firm FundStrat, wrote in a newsletter.
LINK rally fizzles
Arcane Research, the Norwegian analysis firm, totted up a list of dismal indicators and predictions in a weekly report:
Prices for bitcoin mining machines ""have fallen off a cliff"" and are likely to keep falling, which means the miners may eventually have to ""dump their orders"" in the face of falling cash flows.
Bitcoin spot-trading volumes have fallen by 59% over the past nine days.
The growing industry woes are ""leading to a vicious withdrawal cycle on other centralized lending platforms.""
In digital-asset markets beyond bitcoin, the blockchain oracle project Chainlink's LINK rallied as much as 8% earlier after the Robinhood (HOOD) trading platform agreed to list the token. However, later in the day the rally fizzled and LINK was down 2.1%.
In traditional markets, a sell-off in tech led U.S. stocks lower as a key index of consumer confidence dropped to a 16-month low on growing worries over high inflation.
U.S. crude futures rose 2% in New York trading to $111.84 a barrel, and Group of Seven leaders discussed plans for capping oil prices. Gold slid 0.2% to $1,821 an ounce.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $20,237 −2.8%
●Ether (ETH): $1,157 −3.4%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,821.74 −2.0%
●Gold: $1,820 per troy ounce −0.0%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.2% +0.01
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
By Krisztian Sandor
New York Community Bank, a New York State-based community bank that also has branches in New Jersey, Florida and Ohio, will serve as a custodian for some of the reserve assets behind the USD coin (USDC) stablecoin, Circle, USDC's issuer, said Tuesday.
USDC has distinguished itself from stablecoin competitors by forging closer ties with traditional banks and reportedly being more conservative in the selection of reserves, holding only U.S. dollar-denominated cash and short-term U.S. government bonds. It's the second-largest stablecoin after Tether's USDT, with a circulating supply of $55 billion. USDC has taken market share from USDT since the implosion of the Terra blockchain.
Earlier this spring, Circle announced that BNY Mellon (BK), one of the oldest and largest custodian banks in the U.S., would be the primary custodian for USDC reserves.
NYCB is a relatively small bank, managing $61 billion in assets, according to its website. By comparison, BNY Mellon's assets under custody amounts to $45 trillion.
Read the full story here.
Axie Infinity restarts Ronin Bridge: Three months after an exploit saw some $625 million worth of cryptocurrencies stolen from the protocol, Axie Infinity’s Ronin bridge has been restarted. Developers say the bridge has undergone an internal audit and two external audits. Read more here.
Shiba inu (SHIB) and dogecoin (DOGE) lead seven-day returns: The two altcoins, SHIB and DOGE, rallied as bitcoin (BTC) and other major cryptocurrencies broke above resistance levels and stabilized over the weekend. Analysts say speculative investor behavior likely led to meme coins outperforming major cryptocurrencies. Read more here.
LINK rallies: Chainlink's LINK currency rallied by about 8% Tuesday following its listing on online brokerage platform Robinhood (HOOD). It was the first time Robinhood has listed a new token since mid-April. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast discusses the latest market movements and explores a perspective on the Fed’s inflation explanation.
FSInsight Accuses Three Arrows Capital of Running a ‘Madoff-Style Ponzi Scheme’: 3AC borrowed recklessly from just about every institutional lender in the business, a report from the research firm says.
Luxor Launches Hosting Marketplace for Bitcoin Miners Amid Build-Out Delays: The marketplace will offer hosting clients in the U.S. and Canada, with miners able to have as little as one mining rig hosted by some providers.
New York Community Bank to Hold Assets Backing Circle's USDC: This marks the first time a community bank will serve as a custodian for a stablecoin.
Bank of America Says 'Crypto Winter' Concerns Haven't Frozen Investor Interest: Blockchain technology is the most significant evolution of software since the internet, the report said.
Zigazoo, a Social Network for Kids, Raises $17M to Further Web3 Ambitions: The app recently sold out four non-fungible token drops tied to top children’s brands and talent.
A16z Leads $6M Seed Funding Round in Blockchain Linera: The layer 1 chain aims to be low-latency with linear scalability to facilitate the transition from Web2 to Web3.
Accelerate Financial Launches NFT Fund, Sees Prices Bottoming: The fund will own a mix of NFT collections, including CryptoPunks and Bored Ape Yacht Club.
Alan Howard-Backed Cryptography Investor Geometry Emerges From Stealth: Tom Walton-Pocock, the former CEO of zero-knowledge proofs shop Aztec, is heading Geometry.
Argentina's Customs Office Seizes $21M in Crypto Mining Equipment: Report: The case involves 2,233 Whatsminer machines that were improperly imported, according to the government.
‘Crypto Dad’ Chris Giancarlo Knighted by French Government: The former chief of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and avowed crypto advocate was recognized by French President Emmanuel Macron, in part, for embracing “crypto finance.”
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
152,261,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/28/first-mover-asia-chip-maker-nvidia-isnt-an-ether-proxy-bitcoin-holds-near-21k/,"First Mover Asia: Chip Maker Nvidia Isn’t an Ether Proxy, Bitcoin Holds Near $21K","Crypto mining aided Nvidia's bottom line, but it hasn't been a major cause of the stock's steep decline. Ether falls but hovers at around $1,200.",2022-06-28,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin falls but stays well above $20,000. Other major cryptos are in the red.
Insights: Crypto helped Nvidia's bottom line, but it hasn't been a major cause of the stock's steep decline.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,804 -1.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,195 -0.9%
Bitcoin Falls but Remains Near $21K; Other Cryptos Fall
Bitcoin fell on Monday but remained comfortably above the $20,000 threshold it crossed more than a week ago.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,800, down over 1% in the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $1,200, down less than a percentage point but at about the same level it has held for the past week, as investors continued their cautious approach to riskier assets. Trading was light.
""People are still using the next several months to determine where this is going, where this will bottom out, not just in crypto,"" Hany Rashwan, founder of 21Shares, a provider of crypto exchange-traded products, said on CoinDesk's ""First Mover"" program, noting crypto's correlation to equity markets that rebounded last week after months of almost nonstop declines.
Other major cryptos were also in the red with celsius (CEL), the token of Celsius Network, a troubled crypto lender, falling by as much as over 16% and UNI dropping nearly 11%. MATIC – a big winner last week after Polygon, the project the token represents, introduced a privacy product for decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) – returned a sizable portion of its gains, also tumbling about 11% at one point.
Large-scale stock indexes dropped slightly with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, which contains a heavy tech component, both down less than a percentage point. The S&P 500 closed Friday with its biggest single-day gain in two years amid the revision of a major report showing consumers slightly more upbeat about inflation in the future and small signs of an economic cooling that might enable the Federal Reserve to scale back its monetary hawkishness later in the year.
The U.S. Census Bureau's durable-goods report released Monday showed orders in May climbed higher than estimated and a rise in pending-home sales for the month, according to the National Association of Realtors. That countered the belief that inflation won't be as high as feared.
Despite recent debacles in the crypto sector, including the implosion of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and liquidity problems at crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, some analysts struck an optimistic note, particularly about decentralized finance (DeFi) projects that have weathered recent storms. In a market recap, Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at Arca Research, highlighted the 20%-30% spike in some cases last week for digital assets, ""led by the most beaten-down sectors, DeFi and NFTs/Gaming.""
""The cynic in me would dismiss these gains as a 'bear market rally' or merely short-covering, but the bull case is that DeFi protocols and applications did their job while their centralized exchange/lending platforms (CeFi) did not,"" Dorman wrote. ""That’s what led to the bounce in DeFi, which trickled down to the rest of the market.
""The carnage in the past six weeks has been very real, but every company that is currently facing solvency or going concern issues is a centralized company with a CEO, a board of directors and human decision-makers. Not a single line of code from DeFi or a smart contract is capable of making the costly decisions that these companies made.""
S&P 500: 3,900 -0.3%
DJIA: 31,438 -0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,524 -0.7%
Gold: $1,823 -0.4%
Despite GPU’s Ties to Mining, Nvidia Isn’t Much of an Ethereum Macro Proxy
A few years ago, it was nearly impossible to buy a graphics processing unit (GPU) add-in board (AIB) for your PC.
Gamers who wanted to upgrade their PC were out of luck. General purpose GPU compute (GPGPU), the ability to harness the chip’s ability to do massive amounts of parallel computation, is just as important for crypto mining as it is for creating photo-realistic graphics for games. So miners bought all they could, displacing gamers in the process.
Nvidia, which makes the GPU chip and its add-in board partners and which make the card itself, had quite the bull run with stocks of Gigabyte, MSI, and Zotac experiencing double-digit gains. Nvidia tried to downplay its exposure to crypto, and that ultimately led to a fine from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The data, however, doesn’t lie: The company sold more cards because of crypto mining.
But let’s be clear: Nvidia isn’t a crypto mining company or a proxy of one. Its stratospheric rise from a $5 stock at the beginning of 2015 to nearly $330 at the end of 2021 isn’t just because of mining, although mining did make a material impact on its income statement. Rather, the same technology, GPGPU Compute, was a Cambrian explosion-like event that unlocked a world of efficiency increases in data centers, allowing for massive advances in things like artificial intelligence and big data.
Data center has become the largest segment for Nvidia, surpassing gaming, last quarter. That has been in the works for a while, as the segment has been posting double-digit growth since 2018. That also means that Nvidia is exposed to slowing investments in data centers as a technology-led recession rips through Wall Street. Research firm Gartner put the growth in IT spending at 9.5% in 2021 and predicts that growth will slow to 4% in 2022.
So while crypto and mining added to Nvidia’s bottom line, it's not the reason why the company’s stock has led the board in declining tech stocks.
European Blockchain Conference
European Central Bank Forum on Central Banking
10 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 p.m. UTC): U.S. consumer confidence (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Exclusive: Morgan Creek Tries to Counter FTX’s BlockFi Bailout, Anatoly Yakovenko on Solana’s New Web3 Phone
CoinDesk deputy managing editor Tracy Wang joined ""First Mover"" to discuss her report on Morgan Creek's offer to counter FTX’s BlockFi bailout. Solana Labs co-founder and CEO Anatoly Yakovenko shared details of its groundbreaking Web3 smartphone 'Saga.' Plus, Hany Rashwan of 21Shares provided market analysis, and ""First Mover"" discussed CoinDesk Future of Work Week coverage with Lennix Lai of OKX (previously Onex).
Goldman Cuts Coinbase to ‘Sell’ Due to Fall in Crypto Prices and Industry Activity; Shares Drop: The company faces a difficult choice between shareholder dilution and effective employee compensation, the report said.
FTX Token DAO Raises $7M From Community of Sam Bankman-Fried Fans: The money is destined for a fund that will contribute to community-led projects across decentralized finance (DeFi) and crypto education.
Voyager Digital Issues Default Notice to 3AC, Draws Down $75M of Alameda Revolver: Shares in the crypto exchange plunged last week on disclosure of its exposure to Three Arrows Capital.
Shiba Inu's SHIB Jumps Amid Speculative Frenzy, BONE Proposal: SHIB rose by nearly 48% in value since the weekend before a sell-off this morning.
Opaque Platforms and Intertwined Protocols Pose Big Risk to Crypto: Second article in a series about risks we’re thinking about during these crypto down days.
Other voices: Crypto needs to be eradicated (Al Jazeera)
""President Biden and the British government said members of the Group of 7 — Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain and the United States — would move on Tuesday to ban imports of Russian gold. Representatives for the assembled countries were also negotiating toward an agreement to buy Russian oil only at a steep discount."" (The New York Times) ... ""Took too long to reconnect with @snoopdogg - you know we had to make a movie! http://Eminem.lnk.to/FromTheD2TheLBC #FromTheDToTheLBC #curtaincall2 @BoredApeYC"" (Marshall Mathers/@Eminem/Twitter) ... ""While Bitcoin is technically cryptocurrency, it's ""not crypto"" in the sense that nearly all crypto projects these days are DINOs / unregistered securities."" (Jameson Loop/Twitter)"
153,275,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/29/first-mover-asia-how-traders-are-shorting-tether-stablecoins-bitcoin-falls-but-holds-above-20k/,First Mover Asia: How Traders Are Shorting Tether Stablecoins; Bitcoin Falls but Holds Above $20K,Hedge funds are increasingly betting against USDT in anticipation of it losing value amid concerns about the coin’s reserve backing and systemic risks; ether drops.,2022-06-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether decline; other major cryptos in the red.
Insights: Hedge funds are betting against USDT amid concerns about the stablecoin's backing and systematic risks.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $21,199 -0.4%
Ether (ETH): $1,108 -3.4%
Bitcoin and Major Altcoins Decline
Say this about bitcoin over the last 10 days. It's been stubborn, clinging fiercely to its perch above $20,000, the support level that has grown increasingly important for investors gauging the current crypto winter's staying power.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was down a fraction of a percentage point over the past 24 hours but still resilient at about $20,200, even amid the latest angst-provoking industry news, including a report of an order by a British Virgin Islands court for the liquidation of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. Bitcoin has dropped four consecutive days and dipped for a few short spells below $20,000 earlier on Wednesday before rising.
""The news cycle has been pretty awful for crypto markets,"" Oanda senior analyst Edward Moya wrote in an email, adding: ""Concerns are growing that the collapse of Three Arrows Capital could trigger further market contagion.""
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at about $1,100, down over 3% for the same period and about 13% from its high last week when cryptos surged on encouraging comments from U.S. central bank chair Jerome Powell. Other major cryptocurrencies spent their day in the red, most of them significantly so, with BTT off more than 7% at one point and GRT and APE, each down over 4%.
In a slight twist from its pattern throughout much of the year, cryptos veered from major equity indexes, which were flat on Wednesday after Powell said inflation could continue to rise, a result of the disruptive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and reaffirmed the Fed's commitment to address price pressures even at the expense of recession.
Three Arrows debacle continues
Powell's comments offered little comfort for crypto investors already wrestling with the ongoing Three Arrows debacle. The firm has suffered heavy losses in the recent sharp downturn and faces the possibility of insolvency after incurring at least $400 million in liquidations. Crypto brokerage Voyager Digital (VOYG.TO) issued a default notice to 3AC this week after the fund failed to make required payments on loans of 15,250 bitcoins and $350 million in USDC. Voyager's shares plunged after it disclosed its exposure to 3AC.
3AC has been an active investor in the digital asset industry in recent years with investments across non-fungible tokens, decentralized finance, layer 1 blockchain firms and crypto companies.
Meanwhile, a CoinDesk report found that private and publicly listed crypto miners have racked up debts anywhere between $2 billion to $4 billion to finance the construction of their gargantuan facilities across North America and faced hard decisions about how to survive. And a report by financial services giant Deutsche Bank said the free fall of crypto markets could continue because of the system’s complexity.
Oanda's Moya was pessimistic about bitcoin, noting its struggle ""to hold onto the $20,000 level"" and ""the risk"" of miners having ""to unload some of their holdings as they’ve overcommitted with [graphic processing units].""
""The big transition to a proof-of-stake (POS) for the Ethereum blockchain is a game changer that could hurt miners who financed a lot of hardware,"" Moya wrote. ""If bitcoin breaks below the recent low around $17,500, there isn't much support until the $14,500 level.""
S&P 500: 3,818 -0.07%
DJIA: 31,029 +0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,177 -0.03%
Gold: $1,818 -0.03%
How Traders Are Shorting Tether Stablecoins
Hedge funds are increasingly placing bets against tether (USDT) in anticipation of the U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin losing value amid concerns about the coin’s reserve backing and systemic risks from within the crypto ecosystem.
The short positions are worth “hundreds of millions” of dollars, according to crypto trading fund Genesis and have gained since May’s implosion of terraUSD (UST). These include funds such as Fir Tree Partners and Viceroy Research, that have previously bet against tether, citing the issuing company's opacity about the asset’s actual backing and the lack of audited reserves.
“There has been a real spike in the interest from traditional hedge funds who are taking a look at tether and looking to short it,” Leon Marshall, head of institutional sales at Genesis said earlier this week, as reported. Genesis and CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of Digital Currency Group.
There are also concerns of traders being able to cash out U.S. dollars from tether. “Traders are naturally concerned about being able to cash out of tether,” said Jeff Mei, chief marketing officer at blockchain solutions provider ChainUp, in a Telegram message. “They are seeking safer and more transparent stablecoins such as USDC to transfer their assets to.”
But how are traders betting against a coin priced at $1? As per Paolo Ardoino, chief technology officer at USDT issuer Tether Global, the bets are occurring on futures tracking USDT and on liquidity pools on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications.
“Goal: create enough pressure, in the billions, causing ton of outflows to harm Tether liquidity and eventually buy back tokens at much lower price,” Ardoino explained in a tweet earlier this week.
Exchanges like FTX offer USDT futures to traders, allowing traders to bet on price gyrations as the token falls, or gains, fractions of pennies around the $1 level. Data shows the USDT futures product show over $65 million in trading volume in the past 24 hours, with open interest – or the number of unsettled futures contracts – hovering over the $400 million mark as of Wednesday.
On DeFi applications, shorts on USDT are possible by borrowing the tokens and exchanging them for USDC, another U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin. The strategy here is that if and when USDT falls, the original loan can be paid back at a cheaper cost with the difference pocketed.
Data from DeFi lending protocol Aave shows the rate to borrow USDT is a yearly 2.48%. This means one would pay $2,480 a year on borrowing $100,000 worth of USDT. If USDT were to drop to, say, 90 cents, a trader could repay the loan with $90,000 worth of USDT, pocketing just over $7,500 after fees.
Traders shorting USDT say the asset could lose value if its reserve backing is proven false. The stablecoin is backed by fiat currencies and equivalent asset investments such as commercial paper, bank deposits, bonds, gold and cryptocurrencies, according to issuer Tether Global.
Shorters say Tether Global has been misrepresenting these reserve funds. Tether, however, denies such claims and maintains it holds “100% of the backing.”
Data shows massive outflows from Tether have already taken place in the past few months. In mid-June, investors pulled $1.7 billion from tether in one week, as reported. Meanwhile, Tether’s market capitalization has fallen by over $20 billion since mid-May, CoinGecko data shows.
Meanwhile, some like ChainUp’s Mei suggest short-selling tether isn’t necessarily a bad move.
“Short selling is a natural part of market price discovery. When there is a market downturn, many weaknesses that were previously hidden start to surface,” Mei said.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia and New Zealand Banking Group business confidence (June)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Non-Manufacturing PMI (June)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): China NBS Manufacturing PMI (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Court Orders Three Arrows Capital to Liquidate, Compass Mining CEO, CFO Resign
Crypto's liquidity crisis continued to send shock waves across the industry. Mark Palmer, BTIG managing director and head of digital assets research, joined ""First Mover"" to share his analysis of Voyager Digital and the troubled crypto lender Celsius Network. Joe Orsini of Eaglebrook Advisors provided markets analysis and Chad Barraford, THORChain technical lead, discussed building blockchain interoperability.
FSInsight Accuses Three Arrows Capital of Running a ‘Madoff-Style Ponzi Scheme’: 3AC borrowed recklessly from just about every institutional lender in the business, a report from the research firm says.
Nansen Casts Blame for stETH 'De-Peg' on Terra: The report from the blockchain analytics firm also explains how Celsius and Three Arrows Capital helped foment their own declines.
Deutsche Bank: Crypto Free Fall Could Continue Because of the System’s Complexity: As bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are speculative, high-risk assets, they are disproportionately affected by central bank tightening, the bank said.
Influencers Are Responsible for 92% of Crypto Ad Violations in India, Report Says: Violations included not carrying a required disclaimer or paid partnership tag on the ad, according to the Advertising Standards Council of India.
Citi Flags Crypto-Backed Real Estate Mortgages Amid Falling Market Conditions: The bank points to the rise of crypto-backed mortgages and financing of digital property purchases.
From an Attention Economy to a Values-Driven Economy: Cryptocurrencies, NFTs and DAOs are powerful tools for an increasingly interconnected world. This article is part of CoinDesk's Future of Work Week.
Other voices: The promise and peril of crypto for Black investors (NPR)
""The Horizon Bridge hacker has so far sent 41% of the $100 million in stolen cryptoassets into the Tornado Cash mixer. Mixers such as Tornado Cash are used to hide the transaction trail. However, Elliptic has used its Tornado demixing capability to trace all of the stolen funds through Tornado and onwards to other wallets. Users of Elliptic’s solutions can now screen wallets and transactions for links to the stolen funds – even those that have passed through Tornado."" (Elliptic report) ... 1/ as an investor, board director, and customer of @compass_mining, i continue to be excited by Compass' vision to make mining accessible for a wide range of bitcoiners, from retail HODLers to institutions looking to operate their own infrastructure..."" (Meltem Demirors/Twitter) ... MicroStrategy has purchased an additional 480 bitcoins for ~$10.0 million at an average price of ~$20,817 per #bitcoin. As of 6/28/22 @MicroStrategy holds ~129,699 bitcoins acquired for ~$3.98 billion at an average price of ~$30,664 per bitcoin. $MSTR"" (MicroStrategy (MSTR) founder and CEO Michael Saylor)
CORRECTION (June 30, 2022, 09:25 UTC): Corrects name and title of Jeff Mei throughout."
154,110,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/29/crypto-derivatives-exchange-bybit-to-settle-options-contracts-in-usdc/,Crypto Derivatives Exchange Bybit to Settle Options Contracts in USDC,The company will be using the second-largest stablecoin by market cap for its relative stability.,2022-06-29,"Crypto derivatives exchange Bybit said it is offering options contract settlement using USD coin (USDC).
The exchange said in a press release that USDC, a stablecoin pegged 1:1 to the United States dollar and the second largest by market capitalization, will enable stable prices for the duration of each contract.
Most crypto options are margined and settled using the same currency. For example, if bitcoin (BTC) is used as collateral in a contract, it will also be used as the settlement currency. Bybit says its move to settle using USDC is a first for crypto options trading.
The settlement date is the date when a trade is final, and the buyer must make payment to the seller while the seller delivers the assets to the buyer. Options contracts and other derivatives have settlement dates for trades in addition to a contract's expiration dates.
Bybit’s choice to use USDC for contracts because of its stability unfolds against a bear-market backdrop of stablecoin doubts. In May, Terra's UST, then the third-largest stablecoin by market cap, crashed to near zero from its dollar peg. Tether (USDT), the largest stablecoin, lost $10 billion in market capitalization the same month when investors started to redeem the tokens.
Amid the general crypto market volatility, USDC is being seen as a more reliable and transparent option, according to analysts.
Bybit currently supports USDT, BTC, ether (ETH) and USDC as collateral, with more assets to be added, it said. Under the newly launched unified margin account, users of Bybit’s European-style, USDC-settled options will also be able to use all assets under their account as collateral to trade USDC options contracts and perpetuals.
“Our derivatives platform has the world’s best liquidity and tightest spread, so traders are ensured the best quote and best execution in the market even during extreme volatility,” said Ben Zhou, co-founder and CEO of Bybit, in the press release.
The announcement comes a week after Bybit announced it would be reducing its workforce and consolidating teams to improve efficiency."
155,112,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/29/market-wrap-bear-market-guides-in-vogue-as-bitcoin-drops-fourth-straight-day/,Market Wrap: Bear Market Guides in Vogue as Bitcoin Drops for Fourth Straight Day,"BTC was sliding toward $20,000 on Wednesday, as the Bankless newsletter offers mental health tips for surviving a crypto winter.",2022-06-29,"Hi, I'm Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the day's crypto market highlights and news.
Bitcoin (BTC) fell for a fourth straight day, just barely holding above the psychologically crucial $20,000 mark.
And so it seems fitting that the decentralized finance (DeFi) newsletter Bankless sent an edition on Wednesday under the title, ""7 Mental Health Tips for This Bear Market.""
""Unless you're a crypto mega whale hoovering up capitulation plankton, chances are number-go-down for a while,"" Jem Khawaja wrote in the newsletter.
Among altcoins, Polkadot’s DOT was the biggest loser in the CoinDesk 20, falling 3.7% over the past 24 hours. Ether (ETH), the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain and the second biggest overall, fell 3.5%. Dogecoin (DOGE) rose 6%, and shiba inu (SHIB) rallied 3.6%.
In traditional markets, stocks edged lower as top officials at the Federal Reserve and European Central Bank spoke about the economy and inflation at a forum.
The day's highlight came when Fed Chairman Jerome Powell acknowledged that ""we now understand better how little we understand about inflation."" Consumer prices have been climbing at their fastest pace in four decades.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $20,266 −0.2%
●Ether (ETH): $1,114 −3.3%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,818.79 −0.1%
●Gold: $1,820 per troy ounce +0.1%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.09% −0.1
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
By Jimmy He
Crypto derivatives exchange Bybit said it is offering options contract settlement using USD coin (USDC).
The exchange said in a press release that USDC, a stablecoin pegged 1:1 to the U.S. dollar and the second-largest stablecoin by market capitalization, will enable stable prices for the duration of each contract.
Bybit’s choice to use USDC for contracts because of its stability unfolds despite increasing doubts about stablecoins. In May, Terra's UST, then the third-largest stablecoin by market cap, crashed to nearly zero from its dollar peg. Tether (USDT), the largest stablecoin, lost $10 billion in market capitalization the same month when investors started to redeem the tokens.
Amid the general crypto market volatility, USDC is being seen as a more reliable and transparent option, according to analysts.
Read the full story here.
Chainlink protocols go live on Fantom: Two protocols, Keepers and Verifiable Random Function (VRF), will allow developers to deploy more sophisticated DeFi applications on the Fantom network. Read more here.
Bybit settles options contracts in USDC: The crypto derivatives exchange will be offering options contract settlement using USD coin. The exchange said in a press release that it would enable stable prices for the duration of each contract. Read more here.
Polygon Deploys ‘Avail’: The custom blockchain scaling system allows developers to launch application-specific blockchains on the Polygon network and access blockchain data “off-chain,” meaning they wouldn't need to continually check data from the network for an application deployed on Polygon. Read more here.
Nansen Casts Blame for stETH 'De-Peg' on Terra: The report from the blockchain analytics firm also explains how Celsius Network and Three Arrows Capital helped foment their own declines.
EU Finalizes Crypto Money Laundering Rules: A Wednesday meeting secured a final deal on anti-money-laundering legislation for crypto transfers, which the industry warns could prove harmful for innovation and privacy.
Crypto Miners Face Margin Calls, Defaults as Debt Comes Due in Bear Market: Private and publicly listed crypto miners owe up to $4 billion in debt used to finance the construction of gargantuan facilities across North America, according to industry participants and data compiled by CoinDesk.
Polkadot Chief Gavin Wood Announces Blockchain Governance Upgrade: The platform's “Gov2” is set to launch on Kusama “imminently,” following a final professional audit of its code, he said.
Citi Flags Crypto-Backed Real Estate Mortgages Amid Falling Market Conditions: The bank points to the rise of crypto-backed mortgages and financing of digital property purchases.
Bitcoin Dips Under $20K on Blunted Growth Sentiment as Spain Fuels Inflation Concerns: Traders assessed revived concerns of rampant inflation and growth for the coming months.
Deutsche Bank: Crypto Free Fall Could Continue Because of the System’s Complexity: As bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are speculative, high-risk assets, they are disproportionately affected by central bank tightening, the bank said.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
156,273,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/30/banks-bitcoin-holdings-should-be-capped-basel-committee-proposes/,"Banks’ Bitcoin Holdings Should Be Capped, Basel Committee Proposes",Holdings of unbacked crypto like bitcoin and algorithmic stablecoins would be limited to 1% of a lender’s capital under the standard setter's new plans put out for consultation Thursday.,2022-06-30,"Conventional banks should have a cap on their holdings of unbacked crypto assets to safeguard financial stability, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said Thursday.
The international standard setter is having another go at setting out how much capital lenders need to hold for their crypto exposures, after a first consultation published last year met with an outcry from the industry for being too conservative.
International rules, toughened after the 2008 financial crisis, require lenders to have capital reserves that can be used as backup in case assets such as loans turn sour. It also stops banks from having significant exposure to any one entity since the bank’s fortunes could then hinge on the collapse of one corporation.
Those requirements should also apply to crypto, the committee said.
“The large exposure rules of the Basel Framework are not designed to capture large exposures to an asset type, but to individual counterparties or groups of connected counterparties,” the consultation document said. “This would imply, for example, no large exposure limits on cryptoasset where there is no counterparty, such as bitcoin.”
But the Committee seems to have softened its position on crypto holdings where the bank is able to insure against its risk after a receiving a barrage of complaints that its previous approach was too cautious. The original plans meant a bank with an exposure to crypto of $100 has a minimum capital requirement of $100, essentially ruling them out from any incentive to get involved in crypto markets.
Under the new plan, lighter rules would apply to cryptos that have an equivalent liquid derivative such as an exchange-traded fund, given the possibility to ""hedge"" exposures.
But for the riskiest class of crypto assets, which includes those that aren’t backed by conventional reserves or asset-pegged stablecoins that aren't satisfactorily stabilized, there would be an exposure limit set at 1% of Tier 1 capital, or the core capital held in a bank's reserve, the document said. For large banks like JPMorgan Chase (JPM), 1% of Tier 1 capital can amount to billions of dollars.
The proposal implies the 1% cap would apply to unbacked cryptocurrencies like bitcoin (BTC), and for cryptocurrencies like algorithmic stablecoins which are backed by other cryptocurrencies and stabilized by an algorithm. In May, an $18 billion algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD collapsed, prompting regulators to fast-track oversight.
The cap also applies to total holdings of crypto assets classified as high risk. For instance, if a lender has 0.6% in algorithmic stablecoins and 0.5% in bitcoin, it has breached the 1% limit.
The committee is seeking comments on the plans by the end of September, and says it will monitor the fast-moving and volatile market in the meantime.
Read more: Basel Committee to Review Proposed Capital Requirements for Banks With Crypto Assets"
157,267,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/30/states-not-congress-will-lead-crypto-regulation-says-legal-expert/,"States, Not Congress, Will Lead Crypto Regulation, Says Legal Expert","States could move faster to keep pace with a changing market, said Jarrod Loadholt, a partner at Ice Miller Public Affairs Group.",2022-06-30,"State financial regulators will implement crypto regulations before the U.S. Congress does, Jarrod Loadholt, a partner at Ice Miller Public Affairs Group, told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.""
Rather than waiting on the federal government to codify rules, states could move forward with standards of their own, such as liquidity requirements, as a condition for all crypto trading platforms to have an operating license, Loadholt said Thursday. The federal government is more likely to regulate crypto through enforcement actions rather than through legislation, he said.
“The reality is that this is still a market that is evolving and most policymakers are still trying to learn it,” Loadholt said. “But in terms of who can act faster and who can actually move faster, it's going to be a state regulator.”
Loadholt’s comments come after U.S. Sens. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) proposed a crypto-friendly bill earlier this month. That bill seeks to establish a regulatory framework for digital assets across the U.S.
Read more: Key US Senators Introduce Crypto Bill Outlining Sweeping Plan for Future Rules
The collapse of stablecoin terraUSD (UST) last month, as well as crypto lender Celsius Network freezing customer withdrawals this month, could be examples lawmakers use as calls to action.
In the short term, Loadholt said, there will be “far more action around licensing” because of the need for some guardrails that can address investor concerns. He suggested that in the longer term, a majority of the industry could disappear, while those that can afford to comply with regulations are likely to keep operating.
“Ultimately, the industry should want to feel like they have the confidence that no matter where they invest, that they’re safe,” he said.
It is unlikely Congress will pass a law to regulate the industry this year, Loadholt added."
158,269,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/30/eu-agrees-on-landmark-crypto-authorization-law-mica/,"EU Agrees on Landmark Crypto Authorization Law, MiCA",The world’s third-biggest economy wants the Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation to protect investors and set up strict standards for stablecoin issuers.,2022-06-30,"BRUSSELS — European Union (EU) policymakers have struck a deal on landmark legislation to regulate crypto assets and service providers throughout the bloc's 27 member nations.
The policymakers, who represent the world’s third-largest economy, have been haggling for nearly two years over the Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) framework. As it stood on Thursday, the legislative package sets up requirements for crypto issuers to publish a kind of technical manifesto called a ""white paper,"" to register with the authorities and to keep proper bank-style reserves for stablecoins (cryptocurrencies pegged to the value of an asset such as sovereign currencies like the euro).
Stefan Berger, the parliamentarian in charge of seeing MiCA through the EU's complex legislative process, tweeted confirmation that policymakers had reached an agreement. The news was also hailed by the European Commission's Mairead McGuiness as she left the talks, which dragged on for nearly seven hours.
“I think everybody's now aware that you can't have an unregulated sector,” McGuinness told CoinDesk, referring to turbulence seen in recent weeks in crypto markets.
“We're glad that we're leading on this,” she said, adding that “we do think there needs to be international cooperation because it's important that we don't regulate on our own.”
McGuinness has previously called for the U.S. to cooperate on crypto regulation, and there are recent signs that the Biden administration is considering its own stablecoin laws.
McGuinness also suggested this is not the end of the story, after the European Central Bank’s Christine Lagarde said further laws would be needed to deal with new areas like crypto lending.
“No legislation is ever set in stone, and no legislation in the area of crypto could be,” McGuinness said. “Those who are in this space are thinking of being innovative will now do it in a way that sits within our regulation rather than in the Wild West.”
One official familiar with the talks told CoinDesk that, under the final deal, non-fungible tokens (NFT) would be excluded from the scope of the law altogether unless the NFTs can be split up or fractionalized – meaning multiple people can own parts of an NFT.
Lawmaker Ernest Urtasun tweeted that the deal would include a cap on large stablecoins that become widely used as a means of payment, meaning that they can’t exceed 200 million euros of transactions per day.
MiCA was originally put forward by the European Commission in September 2020 in an attempt to address a slew of crypto fundraising projects called initial coin offerings (ICO) that often proved bogus. The law needed approval from EU governments and lawmakers to pass – which it now has.
MiCA has been broadly welcomed by the industry because it can increase credibility, promote adoption by conventional banks and offer crypto companies a single license to operate across the bloc.
Read more: NFT, Private Wallet Fates Hang on EU Crypto Talks This Week
But many grew increasingly anxious over later attempts by lawmakers to extend the reach of the law to cover decentralized finance (DeFi) and NFTs as well as limit the environmental impact of the proof-of-work consensus mechanism that underpins bitcoin.
In the last phase of talks, the focus was on whether NFT service providers – which include marketplaces such as OpenSea – should need to seek regulatory authorization to operate within the bloc.
The law also introduces tough requirements for stablecoin issuers. The stablecoin rules were initially proposed as a reaction to libra, the cryptocurrency proposed by the former Facebook, which finance ministers worried would usurp governments’ role in controlling money. Though libra (later renamed diem) is now no more, the idea of strict regulations for stablecoin issuers has gained favor following the dramatic collapse of terraUSD last month.
The legislative deal comes as U.S. lawmakers consider rules of their own, particularly for the stablecoin market. It also follows hot on the heels of controversial anti-money laundering measures that the EU agreed to impose on crypto service providers Wednesday.
Read more: US Stablecoin Law Could Actually Pass This Year, Lawmakers Say
Once today’s political deal is formally endorsed and the text gazetted in the EU Official Journal, crypto companies will still have a transition period during which they can adopt the new rules.
UPDATE (June 30, 19:56 UTC): Adds comment from official on NFTs and tweet from Ernest Urtasun."
159,272,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/30/crypto-lender-celsius-network-exploring-options-to-preserve-and-protect-assets/,Crypto Lender Celsius Network Exploring Options to ‘Preserve and Protect’ Assets,The company is consulting with experts to try to reduce the fallout from its mid-June swoon.,2022-06-30,"Crypto lending platform Celsius is exploring options to “preserve and protect assets” following its mid-June turmoil, according to an announcement published on the firm’s blog on Thursday.
“Across Celsius today we are focused and working as quickly as we can to stabilize liquidity and operations, in order to be positioned to share more information with the community,” the post reads.
These actions could include “pursuing strategic transactions” and “restructuring its liabilities,” among other strategies, the company said. “These exhaustive explorations are complex and take time, but we want the community to know that our teams are working with experts from many different disciplines,” Celsius wrote.
On June 12, Celsius announced it was freezing withdrawals and transfers in response to “extreme market conditions,” fueling rumors that the platform had become insolvent. The move left 1.7 million users unable to redeem their assets, and sparked fears that funds would be locked indefinitely.
The firm has hired restructuring consultants from Alvarez & Marsal, an advisory firm, to explore the possibility of bankruptcy filings, according to people with knowledge of the matter who spoke to the Wall Street Journal last week.
The lender’s financial issues come amid a wider crypto market crash. In May, algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD and its sister coin LUNA imploded spectacularly in a $40 billion collapse, destabilizing the cryptocurrency market and spurring $300 billion in losses across the cryptocurrency economy.
The crash has been driven, in part, by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s efforts to fight sky-high inflation through a series of aggressive interest rate hikes, which has fueled a bout of risk-off selling of digital assets.
Prior to the crash, Celsius experienced massive success in its fundraising, accruing $750 million in its latest funding round in November 2021 at a valuation just north of $3.25 billion. As of May 2022, the firm had lent out more than $8 billion to clients and had $12 billion in assets under management.
Read More: How Crypto Lender Celsius Overheated"
160,274,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/30/eu-watchdog-wants-to-address-threat-crypto-assets-could-one-day-pose-to-financial-system/,EU Watchdog Wants to Address Threat Crypto Assets Could Pose to Financial System,The European Systemic Risk Board is looking into measures and policies to address the potential threat that crypto assets could present to the global financial system.,2022-06-30,"The European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) has deemed it a ""matter of urgency” to consider the need for additional regulatory measures and policy steps to address the potential threat that crypto assets could pose to the financial system.
The body, which is responsible for ensuring the stability of the financial system in the EU, said in a statement on Thursday that while crypto assets currently have a limited hold on the financial system, ”these risks could materialize quickly and suddenly.”
Crypto’s recent boom and bust has caused regulators to pay closer attention to the market. The digital assets market had a market capitalization of around $790 billion at the start of 2021 and then peaked at almost $3 trillion in November before plunging to $1 trillion as of June 30, according to CoinGecko. Recently, regulators have become more concerned about the risks that crypto poses because of the recent collapse of terraUSD (UST) and troubles faced by crypto lenders such as Celsius.
The ESRB also hopes to identify crypto’s possible systemic implications on the EU financial system, as well as consider potential legal actions and regularly monitor the digital asset sector.
The EU is not the only one looking into how to mitigate risks posed by crypto assets. The U.K.’s Treasury published a consultation paper in May in which it said it planned to legislate that the Bank of England, its central bank, would have the power to supervise stablecoins that could impact the wider economy.
The ESRB said it planned to make proposals on how to ensure a European and global regulatory standard was developed to better safeguard against crypto assets that could one day pose systemic risks.
The EU is already in the process of producing a legislative package for crypto assets called Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) that would be transportable across all 27 member nations. The EU has reaffirmed its “support for a quick adoption and implementation” of MiCA.
Read more: No AML Checks For Most Transfers To Unhosted Crypto Wallets, EU Policymakers Decide"
161,270,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/01/crypto-world-is-cautious-of-finer-details-in-eus-mica-law/,Crypto World Is Cautious of Finer Details In EU's MiCA Law,"Web3 advocates are cautiously welcoming Europe's new law, but must first resolve its paradoxes – like when is a non-fungible token fungible?",2022-07-01,"Crypto industry figures welcomed, for the most part, the European Union’s (EU) landmark crypto law, the Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) regulation, agreed upon late Thursday. But the picture is more complicated when looking at the details, such as how the legislation treats particular digital assets.
The framework dedicates sizable sections to rules restricting the issuance and proliferation of stablecoins, which are cryptocurrencies tethered to the value of real assets like the U.S. dollar or the euro.
The rules, intended to offer regulatory certainty to the growing industry, still have many scratching their heads over paradoxes – such as whether a non-fungible token (NFT) can become fungible and interchangeable with other identical assets in the same way as securities.
For some, the immediate reaction to the announcement of a deal was relief that the nearly two years of haggling was finally over. Lawmaker Aurore Lalucq celebrated the milestone with a tweet citing Disney’s song “Let It Go” (in French, known as “Freed! Released!”).
Others jumped straight to the substance of a law that represents a significant first for such a large jurisdiction.
“This landmark regulation will put an end to the crypto wild west and confirms the EU’s role as a standard setter for digital topics,” said France Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire in an emailed statement. Le Maire was responsible for chairing intergovernmental talks on the law for the last six months.
In the crypto community, many appear to agree with at least the latter part of Le Maire’s sentiment.
“This framework has helped put the region on the map as an early and important leader in defining the regulatory environment. It will shape the digital asset ecosystem for years to come,” said Sheila Warren of the Crypto Council for Innovation in an emailed statement.
The analogy is often made with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), setting out what companies can do with personal information. It has not always been popular, and at least initially meant some U.S. websites had to block their content in Europe – but proponents argue it gave the EU big influence over how to protect online privacy worldwide.
Plus, Warren said, the new crypto law mostly avoids stifling innovation – and indeed may prove a net positive.
“Legal and regulatory certainty for the market will enable more crypto firms to invest and innovate across the region,” she said. “It is an encouraging development.”
Marina Markezic, a founder and executive director of lobby group the European Crypto Initiative, said the deal was an “achievement” that will make life easier for companies.
“This is very good for the whole EU market in general just to have a unified regulation,” she told CoinDesk. “Until now, every different [EU] member state has their own regulation, or they didn't have anything, so it was very hard for different companies and projects to be present and offer their services in the whole market.”
As to how the negotiations finally panned out, “the worst case scenario didn't happen,” she said. She points to an attempt to limit the energy-intensive proof-of-work mining that, in the end, never came to pass.
Pending a final text, she also thinks she’s happy with the result on NFTs – previously a major area of concern.
“NFTs are excluded, and they are also defined in a way that more or less defines the actual facts of how NFTs do function in the industry,” Markezic said.
Lawmakers were keen to ensure the rapidly-evolving NFT market was included in the law, as regulation could offer guarantees for buyers and sellers who often get on the wrong end of manipulative pricing practices. Yet, not all are quite so happy with the final result.
Read more: Proposal Limiting Proof-of-Work Is Rejected in EU Parliament Committee Vote
Lobby group Blockchain for Europe shares the enthusiasm for the legal certainty the new law brings. CEO Robert Kopitsch said rules for crypto asset service providers such as exchanges and wallets are “savvy,” and that the law will let decentralized finance (DeFi) prosper.
But, he added, it’s “overall a mixed bag, and we are still out there to count the casualties.”
Meanwhile, conventional investment banks, a heavily regulated sector that doesn’t want to get undercut by more lightly overseen crypto firms, also seem to appreciate the balance struck.
Read more: EU Agrees on Landmark Crypto Authorization Law, MiCA
“AFME welcomes the pragmatic approach taken to include decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) and non-fungible tokens (NFT),” James Kemp, managing director at the Association for Financial Markets in Europe, said in an emailed statement.
Excluding NFTs altogether, or the DAOs that often underpin decentralized finance, could have harmed investors and financial stability, AFME argued.
In part the mixed response is due to confusion over exactly what the law says: No text is yet available.
In principle, the law excludes NFTs – but in practice, a French finance ministry source told CoinDesk, only as long as they do what they promise.
“If a non-fungible token becomes fungible, then it will fall into” either MiCA, or other EU laws governing conventional financial instruments, said the source, who asked not to be named. In reality, another source has told CoinDesk, last-minute drafting changes may mean that the law may apply to any NFT that is part of a series and able to be divided up – or “fractionable,” in legal jargon.
That kind of NFT might be most concerning to policymakers because it most resembles regulated securities, but the wording has raised alarm.
“If this is the final draft, and the word ‘fractionable’ is used, that is a concern because from the technical point of view most of the NFTs are fractionable,” said Markeciz. “Maybe the word ‘fractionalized’ would be better.”
If it implies the law extends to cover all collectibles, that would be a “sheer joke,” Kopitsch said, with creators having to prepare multiple white papers informing buyers about their artworks.
Another major focus of the bill is stablecoins – with rules intended to ensure good governance and financial stability that were originally a response to Facebook’s now-aborted Libra project, and gained still more momentum after the dramatic collapse of the terraUSD algorithmic stablecoin.
One of the most eye-catching measures would be a cap, which means stablecoins that aren’t tied to a single fiat currency would have to stop issuing if daily transactions exceed 200 million euros ($209 million) – intended to stop private companies usurping the role of the euro.
For some, like Kene Ezeji-Okoye, CEO of U.K.-based stablecoin issuer Millicent, that’s an “arbitrary restriction,” and an example of the law discriminating against a means of payment because of the technology it uses.
“Given that the top four stablecoins in the market currently significantly exceed this volume, this could be a barrier to stablecoins becoming widespread in the EU, which would be a shame given their many benefits of other means of transacting,” he said.
Markezic also noted that, in practice, it will be impossible for decentralized stablecoins – those that don’t have a single identifiable issuer – to comply with the rules that in practice oblige a central entity to take charge. Decentralized stablecoin DAI is the fourth-largest stablecoin by market capitalization.
Other restrictions in the law, like ban on interest payments for users, and heavy restrictions on how reserves can be invested, have led some to ask if there will ever be an incentive for stablecoin issuers, and the DeFi ecosystem they bring with them, to set up in Europe at all.
U.S. companies are already taking advantage by issuing stablecoins in the EU’s own currency, the euro, French crypto lobbyists ADAN noted, in a likely reference to recent announcements by USD coin issuer Circle. The advocacy group warned that more complex and rigid legislation would only make that situation worse.
Read more: Biden Official Says US Government Could Pass Stablecoin Rules by End of Year
To strike the provisional deal, governments, grouped in the Council of the EU, had to agree on a text jointly with the European Parliament.
The final session talks where they did so ran on for nearly seven hours, culminating in head-to-head private discussions between lead negotiators Philippe Léglise-Costa, a French diplomat representing the Council, and Irene Tinagli, the Italian lawmaker who chairs the parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee.
Talks concluded just a few hours before France would have had to cede control to the Czech Republic, which took over chairmanship of the Council as of July 1.
One of the most heated issues in those final talks appears to have been on whether national regulators, or EU agencies responsible for banking or securities markets should get to supervise crypto firms. The dispute over which agency gets supervisory authority is mirrored in the U.S. between the U.S. Securities and Exchange and Commodity Futures Trading Commissions. But such squabbles over territory may not be such a big deal from the industry’s perspective, Markezic said.
“It's less substantive” than other issues on her radar, she said. “What matters to the European community is that there is going to be a unified way of how they're going to be reviewed by the regulators,” and that those regulators have the right crypto expertise.
Read more: No AML Checks For Most Transfers To Unhosted Crypto Wallets, EU Policymakers Decide
The agreement caps a big week for crypto in the EU, hot on the heels of a deal to impose anti-money laundering rules on the sector. The EU’s intent will be that, with the package of two laws in hand, it can set itself out as a natural home for sound crypto businesses.
Others may look at the many near misses during the talks – which at times came dangerously close to restricting bitcoin (BTC) mining, attempting to centralize DeFi, and imposing identity checks on self-hosted crypto wallets – and ask if that’s the kind of regulatory certainty the industry needs.
Camomile Shumba contributed reporting."
162,271,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/06/first-mover-asia-how-inaccurate-data-misled-investors-to-see-massive-outflows-from-this-crypto-exchange-btc-holds-steady-over-20k/,First Mover Asia: How Inaccurate Data Misled Investors to See Massive Outflows From This Crypto Exchange; BTC Holds Steady Over $20K,"KuCoin founder Johnny Lyu said those data feeds plus mislabeled, on-chain wallets propagated rumors last week that led to the token exodus; ether rises in Wednesday trading.",2022-07-06,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $20K; ether climbs late Wednesday.
Insights: Inaccurate data led investors to believe that crypto exchange KuCoin's holdings were smaller than expected, according to KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,576 +2%
Ether (ETH): $1,194 +5.5%
Bitcoin Holds Above $20K; Ether Climbs Late on Wednesday
Bitcoin rested above $20,000 for a third consecutive day.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,600, up better than a percentage point. Bitcoin had plunged below the psychologically important barrier last week before a late weekend rally. Many analysts have adopted a clear-eyed view of the current crypto climate that has suffered the dual body blows of protocol fiascos and macroeconomic uncertainty. They do not see prices rising any time soon, barring an unexpected turn for the better in the ongoing battle with inflation.
""You're seeing carnage out there,"" said David Nage, portfolio manager for asset management firm Arca, on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""You're seeing Celsius. You're seeing Voyager. You're seeing BlockFi. You're seeing a number of different headlines come in over the last few months.""
Yet, Nage also viewed positively bitcoin's ability for much of the past month to remain in its current $18,000-$20,000 range. ""Bitcoin has held steady around this trading pattern,"" he said, adding: ""We talk about digital assets as a durational effect in terms of things that are going to happen and change with society and our economic systems. Bitcoin is definitely a part of that.""
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently trading at roughly $1,190, up more than 5%. Other major cryptos also traded slightly higher with STORJ rising nearly 6% at one point and RUNE climbing more than 5%. Troubled crypto lenders CEL token dropped over 8%.
Equity markets rise slightly
Cryptos tracked major equity markets as they've done far more frequently than not in recent months, with the tech-focused Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average all up, albeit ever so slightly. Investors who have been concerned about the U.S. central bank's efforts to tame inflation may have drawn some encouragement from the release of minutes of the Federal Reserve's June meeting indicating a firm commitment to its current, hawkish monetary policy. U.S. Labor Department figures released Wednesday morning showed strong hiring in May, a sign that the economy has not been cooling sufficiently to stem inflationary pressure.
Crypto industry news centered on Voyager Digital's Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing Tuesday, which will allow the firm to reorganize with the intent of paying back at least some of its creditors. Voyager Digital followed by just a few days a bankruptcy filing by crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, which filed for chapter 15 protection tied to an ongoing liquidation effort ordered by a court in the British Virgin Islands.
Toronto-based Voyager estimated that it had more than 100,000 creditors and somewhere between $1 billion and $10 billion in assets. The firm recorded the same range for its liabilities and faces delisting by the Toronto Stock Exchange. Crypto lender CoinLoan and crypto futures exchange CoinFLEX have limited and halted withdrawals, respectively in recent days.
'Healthy markets here'
Arca's Nage noted optimistically ""some normalization ... , some healthy markets here"" in recent funding for digital asset projects. ""If you want to call it a crypto winter, whatever you want to call it, if we looked at the venture and private side, what we're seeing is really healthy activity from the private markets,"" he said.
He added regarding the broader outlook for the industry: ""We continue to get a few more these shots to the solar plexus, sentiment will probably reach its slowest peek and then we'll probably rebound. But it's going to be a long time. From a private markets perspective, we're telling our founders, really be prepared for more than two years, 36 months actually.""
S&P 500: 3,845 +0.3%
DJIA: 31,037 +0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,361 +0.3%
Gold: $1,739 -1.44%
KuCoin Held More Bitcoin Than Initial Data Feeds Indicated, Says CEO
Contagion risks emerged in the crypto market after May’s implosion of terraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin that tracked the U.S. dollar. Three Arrows Capital, or 3AC, a prominent crypto fund, took on “heavy losses” on its UST stablecoin position, which alongside poor market conditions, contributed to the firm’s collateral requirements going topsy-turvy and several loans turning into bad debts.
The company held funds from firms that included crypto lenders Voyager, BlockFi and Celsius. These funds’ 3AC exposure has led to Voyager filing for bankruptcy, BlockFi reaching a deal for its sale to crypto exchange FTX US, and Celsius turning to investment banking giant Goldman Sachs (GS) to lead a $2 billion raise for its distressed assets.
The fallout has ignited tensions throughout the crypto community with many observers questioning prominent exchanges’ and wallets’ liquidity. KuCoin, a popular crypto exchange based in Seychelles with a large Asian presence, is among the firms swept up in the industry-wide crisis.
Crypto Twitter last week claimed KuCoin was likely insolvent, with some talking heads urging users to withdraw their funds out of the exchange. This led to outflows, with some users pointing out – wrongly, as it turned out – that KuCoin’s 14 hot wallets had drained from over $1.8 billion to just $10 million within a day. (The tweet was later corrected.)
KuCoin founder and CEO Johnny Lyu, however, explained that inaccurate data feeds and mislabeled, on-chain wallets propagated rumors last week that led to the outflows.
“Most on-chain tracking tools can't present the exact balance of exchanges because many exchange addresses are not labeled on the blockchain,” Lyu told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat. “As a result, many online tracking tools, including Glassnode, miscalculated the balance of KuCoin (and maybe other exchanges too).”
Lyu said corrected data provided to Glassnode and others now accurately displays the exchange’s bitcoin holdings of between 15,000 and 20,000 bitcoins, not the few thousand the old data indicated.
Lyu added that not all exchange addresses were tagged on popular blockchain scanning tools, which also contributed to user worries.
“It's also worth noting that some KuCoin addresses are still not labeled on the blockchain, so this amount tends to be not taken into account by many statistical algorithms and tracking tools,” Lyu said.
“Due to a part of KuCoin wallets not being labeled on the blockchain, a big piece of data remains unaccounted for.”
Glassnode has not responded to CoinDesk's request for comment.
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan economic survey (current/outlook)
7:55 p.m. HKT/SGT (11:55 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde speech
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. labor force participation rate (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Voyager Bankruptcy, Fundstrat Strategist on 3AC ‘Ponzi Scheme,’ Bitcoin Above $20K
FSInsight is accusing Three Arrows Capital of running a ""Madoff-Style Ponzi Scheme."" Fundstrat Global Advisors head of digital asset strategy Sean Farrell shared his findings. Plus, David Nage of Arca provided crypto markets analysis and Nansen research analyst Daniel Khoo discussed the depegging of staked ETH.
Voyager Seeks Bankruptcy Protection Amid Crypto Credit Crisis: The Toronto-based lender filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in New York late Tuesday.
Binance Extends Zero-Fee Bitcoin Trading Globally: The crypto exchange is rolling out a program that started in the U.S. last month to its global client base.
Celsius Repays $183M on DeFi Exchange Maker, Gets Back Collateral, Blockchain Data Shows: The troubled crypto lender paid down $183 million of its debt to the decentralized exchange Maker, blockchain data shows, possibly in a bid to recover bitcoin-linked collateral that otherwise would remain trapped.
Solana-Based Chingari Tokens Plunge 87%, Developers Flag Big Sell Order: The team denies rumors of an exploit or insider trading.
Binance Resumes Local Currency Deposits with Brazilian Payment System Pix: Withdrawals should be resumed “shortly,” said the company, which had suspended that feature on June 17.
The Crypto CEO Who Doesn't Want the Job: The Mask Network's Suji Yan is building and funding Web3, and hoping it decentralizes away his role.
Other voices: How Wall Street Escaped the Crypto Meltdown (The New York Times)
""Customers with crypto in their account(s) will receive in exchange a combination of the crypto in their account(s), proceeds from the [Three Arrows] recovery, common shares in the newly reorganized Company, and Voyager tokens."" (Voyager Digital CEO Stephen Ehrlich) ... ""With deep regret I am resigning from the government. I will not be doing media interviews regarding this."" (U.K. Minister and Economic Secretary to the Treasury John Glen/Twitter)"
163,108,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/07/euros-fall-toward-1-parity-what-it-means-for-crypto/,Euro’s Fall Toward $1 Parity: What It Means for Crypto,The 1-to-1 exchange rate may add bearish pressures around bitcoin and inject volatility into euro-pegged stablecoins.,2022-07-07,"The euro's fall toward $1 for the first time in 20 years – approaching so-called parity with the U.S. dollar – is turning some crypto traders' focus to the exchange rate’s impact on crypto valuations and to stablecoins linked to the European common currency.
Thanks to the emergence in recent years of stablecoins tied to government-issued currencies besides U.S. dollars, the vast realm foreign exchange has been slowly creeping into digital-asset markets.
And some observers say the euro's latest slide could inject bearish pressures into the bitcoin (BTC) market and influence demand for euro-pegged stablecoins.
""Currency turmoil (such as that currently experienced by the euro and others) usually ends up favoring the U.S. dollar, as forex market participants see it as the 'least risky' currency. This is accentuated by the divergent interest rate paths between the U.S. and the EU,"" said Noelle Acheson, head of market insights at the crypto trading firm Genesis Global Trading. ""This could negatively impact the price of bitcoin in dollar terms, which for the past couple of years has been negatively correlated with the dollar index."" (Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group, CoinDesk's parent company.)
The euro has depreciated by 10% against the dollar this year, a significant move for major fiat currency pair. The exchange rate was last seen trading near 1.02, or 200 pips short of the parity level of 1.00.
The decline seems to have stemmed from the European Central Bank (ECB) lagging behind the Federal Reserve (Fed) in tightening monetary policy despite rising inflation, the threat of a full-blown energy crisis in the European Union and recession fears.
""There are evident risks of a recession nowadays and the curtailment of excess dollar margin funding from the securities markets,"" Gregory Klumov, CEO of stablecoin platform Stasis, said in an email. Stasis is the issuer of euro stasis (EURS), which is the world's second-largest euro-pegged stablecoin as per market value.
""When this happens, all borrowers buy back dollars to pay back the loans they took out to improve returns and increase their exposure to risky assets,"" Klumov said. ""Therefore, when assets are sold and funding is returned, the dollar grows. The euro is no exception in this case.""
The currency market pundits are convinced that the ECB will continue to lag, allowing EUR/USD to slip well below 1.00. Engineering a lift-off from a record negative interest rate of -0.5% is easier said than done for the ECB as hawkish expectations recently saw Italian bond yields collapse relative to their German counterparts, raising fragmentation risks. Fragmentation essentially means as the central bank raises rates, the impact of the tightening is not felt in the same way across the common currency area.
Financial markets are driven by sentiment, so when a major national currency like the euro is trampled and pushed toward or below critical levels, investors tend to move out of risky assets, fiat currencies and seek refuge in established safe havens like the U.S. dollar and government bonds. Therefore, EUR/USD's drop to or below 1.00 could spur broad-based demand for the greenback, pushing lower bitcoin and other risky assets.
While bitcoin believers have long hailed the cryptocurrency as a haven asset, historically the digital currency has moved in tandem with technology stocks and in the opposite direction to the dollar index (DXY). For instance, the DXY, which tracks the greenback's value against major currencies, has rallied nearly 12% this year. Meanwhile, bitcoin and Wall Street's tech-heavy Nasdaq index have tanked 55% and 27%, respectively.
Not that things couldn't change. But that's mostly been the pattern.
Euro-pegged stablecoins could lose their shine.
Stablecoins are tokens tracked by a blockchain and intended to consistently match the purchasing power of a fiat currency, like the dollar or the euro. The issuer of the stablecoin promises that users or holders of the stablecoin can redeem the investment anytime at a one-to-one exchange rate.
The structure exposes the user to exchange-rate risk. For instance, assume a trader named Bob purchased one euro-backed tether stablecoin EURT a month ago. Theoretically Bob can redeem EURT for one EUR anytime. However, EUR/USD has declined by 4.2% from 1.065 to 1.02 in four weeks. So, if Bob redeems EURT today, the redemption would yield a loss of 4.2% in dollar terms, assuming he didn't earn additional yield by lending out the asset on the decentralized lending and borrowing protocols.
Therefore, holders of euro-pegged stablecoins may opt for redemptions, given the bearish outlook for the common currency.
""Overall, 1.0 is an important psychological level,"" Dessislava Aubert, senior research analyst at Paris-based Kaiko, told CoinDesk in an email. ""If it breaks, it will most likely spur some FX volatility in the short run, spilling into other asset classes, including crypto, and trigger selling of euro-backed assets.""
Laurent Kssis, managing director and head of Europe at crypto exchange-traded fund firm Hashdex, said the euro-pegged stablecoin market may get tested for its robustness and come under pressure.
Investors are already moving out of the euro-denominated and euro-backed assets, according to Stasis' CEO Gregory Klumov. ""In a situation where an outflow of capital from euro assets, euro shares and euro bonds takes place, it can be observed that the euro stocks are falling more than the American indices over the past few weeks. And of course, euro stablecoins are falling deeper relative to their dollar counterparts,"" Klumov said.
""Since the dollar remains the #1 benchmark for determining prices in the cryptocurrency realm even for European users, the euro stablecoin is perceived as a risky asset (although the EURS is not a risky asset by any chance). There are outflows from the euro stables happening right now and investors will change everything into dollars in such a situation,"" Klumov added.
One question is whether potential redemptions and volatility in the euro-pegged stablecoins would have a Terra-like contagion effect on the broader crypto market. The answer is probably no because the euro-pegged stablecoin market is quite small.
The euro-pegged stablecoin market was worth $440 million at press time. That's just 0.29% of the dollar-pegged stablecoin market value of $151 billion, according to data tracked by CoinGecko. Cryptocurrencies more broadly have a market capitalization of $950 billion.
The biggest euro-pegged stablecoin at press time was the euro-backed tether, or EURT, with a market value of $210 million. Euro stasis, or EURS, the second-largest euro stablecoin, had a market cap of $126 million. Terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST had a market cap of $18 billion before it collapsed in mid-May, dragging the crypto market lower and leading to volatility in the broader stablecoin market.
""Euro-backed stablecoins are still such a small portion of the overall market that any redemptions the current euro weakness might trigger would not materially impact the overall market cap,"" Acheson said.
As of writing, EURT traded at a slight discount, just below the 1 euro peg on Bitstamp, having dropped to 0.96 euro on June 20. The peg broke after UST’s collapse in mid-May. Meanwhile, the euro tether traded at a slight premium on crypto exchange FTX.
The currency market is a zero-sum game. When we say the euro is likely to lose ground against the dollar, it also means the dollar is expected to rise and there is incentive to hold the greenback-pegged assets.
So while the EUR/USD slide may dent the appeal of the EUR-pegged stablecoins, it could spur demand for the dollar-pegged stablecoins. With the Fed raising rates aggressively to tamp inflation, traders already have a solid reason to hold the dollar-pegged stablecoins.
Besides, the ECB is widely expected to exit the negative interest rate policy this year, which may eventually bode well for the euro and assets backed by the common currency. Circle, the issuer of the second-largest dollar-pegged stablecoins USDC, recently launched a new euro-backed stablecoin called EUROC, perhaps in hopes that ECB’s rate hikes would translate into demand for euro-backed assets.
Interest-rate traders expect the ECB to raise the benchmark borrowing costs by 140 basis points (1.4 percentage point) by the end of the year. The central bank's benchmark interest rate currently stands at -0.5%.
""Rising interest rates will benefit yield products, like stablecoins,"" Bill Cannon, head of exchange-traded product portfolio management at Valkyrie, said. ""Similar to traditional foreign-exchange strategy, utility depends on the use of the product, and it is our understanding that opportunities are limited in the euro-denominated stablecoin products at this time. But just like everything else crypto, that could change quickly.""
Edit (14:38 UTC): Adds quotes from Stasis' CEO Gregory Klumov in the sixth paragraph and in the ""focus on euro-pegged Stablecoins"" section."
164,268,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/07/07/ethereum-scaling-solution-immutable-x-will-allow-ether-to-dollar-withdrawals/,Ethereum Scaling System Immutable X Allowing Ether-to-Dollar Withdrawals,The tool is one of the first layer 2 services to allow users to take out U.S. dollars.,2022-07-07,"Ethereum scaling system Immutable X is allowing users to receive U.S. dollars in their bank accounts on ether (ETH) withdrawals, its developers said this week.
The ability to convert from ether to dollars is available to any developer building on Immutable. Developers can enable their users to sell layer 2-based ether and have the proceeds deposited directly into their bank accounts.
Decentralized layer 2 systems like Immutable X enable faster, cheaper and more energy-efficient transactions than the Ethereum mainnet. As per developer documents, Immutable can process more than 9,000 transactions per second (tps), while the Ethereum network averages 10.54 tps, as of Thursday morning.
This system appears to be one of the first instances of a layer 2, or subsidiary blockchain, application allowing users to directly withdraw ether holdings to U.S. dollars. The fiat transactions are processed via crypto payments firm MoonPay.
The withdrawal service is currently available only in the European Union, the U.K. and select U.S. states.
Immutable founder Robbie Ferguson told CoinDesk that the service comes at a time when the crypto community faces troubles with centralized crypto lenders.
“Centralized products failing over the past six months have made painstakingly clear the importance of decentralized ownership,” Ferguson said in a Twitter message. “Now anyone can take their ETH and receive USD in their bank accounts.”
Withdrawals on popular but centralized crypto-lending products, such as Celsius, remain paused on crypto market contagion risk in June stemming from the collapse of terraUSD (UST) in mid-May and crypto fund Three Arrows Capital in June."
165,281,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/08/us-fed-vice-chair-brainard-doesnt-like-what-shes-seeing-in-crypto/,US Fed Vice Chairwoman Brainard Doesn’t Like What She’s Seeing in Crypto,Lael Brainard argued aggressive regulation is needed for the sector before things get out of hand.,2022-07-08,"One of the top officials at the Federal Reserve made it abundantly clear that the central bank – which is also a powerful financial watchdog – is paying careful attention to the flaws showing up as the crypto sector founders.
“Recent volatility has exposed serious vulnerabilities in the crypto financial system,” Fed Vice Chairwoman Lael Brainard said in a speech in London on Friday, which offered a laundry list of the failings of the digital assets sector. Brainard has been leading the Fed’s work on a potential digital dollar and has been minding the store on crypto policy discussions until the central bank appoints its permanent vice chair for supervision.
Brainard said the Fed has been “closely monitoring recent events where risks in the system have crystallized and many crypto investors have suffered losses,” according to a copy of the speech. And she suggests an answer: “Strong regulatory guardrails will help enable investors and developers to build a resilient digital native financial infrastructure.”
The vice chairwoman contends that the shortcomings of crypto are basically the same as traditional finance, and the sector needs to meet the same safety standards before it gets large enough to become a threat to the rest of the financial system.
“We have seen crypto trading platforms and crypto lending firms not only engage in activities similar to those in traditional finance without comparable regulatory compliance, but also combine activities that are required to be separated in traditional financial markets,” she said at the Bank of England event. “For example, some platforms combine market infrastructure and client facilitation with risk-taking businesses like asset creation, proprietary trading, venture capital and lending.”
TerraUSD’s meltdown has drawn the attention of the Fed and other regulators, and Brainard equated it with other financial runs throughout history.
“New technology and financial engineering cannot by themselves convert risky assets into safe ones,” she said. Brainard argued that stresses throughout the industry have revealed that crypto platforms suffer from classic vulnerabilities and contagions, “illustrated by the freeze on withdrawals at some crypto lending platforms and exchanges and the bankruptcy of a prominent crypto hedge fund.” Last week, hedge fund Three Arrows Capital filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy in the Southern District of New York federal court.
She suggested that all this reinforces the idea that a central bank digital currency from the U.S. “may be an advantage for future financial stability.” Such a government token could have profound implications for the private stablecoin market.
The Senate is soon expected to confirm Michael Barr, President Joe Biden’s pick to be the next Fed vice chairman for supervision, who will lead the central bank’s regulatory and financial-supervision efforts, including how the U.S. will oversee stablecoins. Barr is widely seen as a consumer advocate who will promote tough regulation. He served for a time on the advisory board of crypto firm Ripple, and so he is familiar with the industry.
Camomile Shumba contributed to this report."
166,276,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/08/unpacking-the-latest-bitcoin-etf-rejections/,Unpacking the Latest Bitcoin ETF Rejections,Grayscale and Bitwise saw their bitcoin ETF applications rejected. Have we learned anything new?,2022-07-08,"The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rejected more spot bitcoin (BTC) exchange-traded fund applications. It’s worth unpacking the agency’s reasoning, even as new applications are filed.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
Two bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF) applications were denied last week. The big question for me is whether we’re learning anything new from these rejections. At this point, I’m not sure – a lot of these rejections really read the same.
Even if the bitcoin ETF rejections are all similar, it’s always worth digging in and examining the Securities and Exchange Commission’s reasoning, and what we can learn from it.
To no one’s surprise, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rejected yet more bitcoin ETF applications, this time by Grayscale Investments and Bitwise Asset Management.
Grayscale almost immediately filed a petition for review with the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C., asking the federal court system to take a look at the SEC’s decision and either declare it is with the Administrative Procedures Act or possibly just remand the decision back to the SEC but asking it to take another look at the application and review its process as to whether or not the rejection complied with its internal processes.
Disclosure: Grayscale and CoinDesk share a parent company in Digital Currency Group. CoinDesk remains editorially independent of all DCG companies.
The SEC reiterated its at this point very frequent concerns that there is the potential for market manipulation, that the stablecoin tether (USDT) might be used to manipulate the market and that it does not believe that Grayscale or its partner, the NYSE Arca exchange, have met their obligations to reassure the SEC that this is not possible.
For its part, Grayscale says the approval of bitcoin futures ETF products should indicate that a spot market-based ETF product is safe for consumers. In the words of Grayscale Chief Legal Officer Craig Salm, like products should receive like treatment.
To better understand the SEC’s rejection, we should probably take a look at the Teucrium futures ETF approval. This is the bitcoin futures ETF that was filed under the same law that all the spot ETF applications have been filed under. When it was approved earlier this year, a lot of bitcoin ETF advocates said they believed it was a sign the SEC might actually be willing to budge on the spot bitcoin applications.
The reasoning is this: SEC Chair Gary Gensler said last year that he was comfortable with futures ETFs filed under a specific law because that law enshrined certain consumer protections. The law that will govern spot bitcoin ETFs does not have the same protections.
In approving a futures ETF filed under the other law, the SEC opened the door to a spot ETF under that law, these advocates said.
(I’m keeping things relatively simple and vague – these are the 1940 and 1933-34 Acts, respectively, for those of you curious.)
The Teucrium approval also addressed the market manipulation concerns, saying:
“As Arca states, as a Designated Contracts Market … the CME ‘comprehensively surveils futures market conditions and price movements on a realtime and ongoing basis in order to detect and prevent price distortions, including price distortions caused by manipulative efforts.’ Thus the CME’s surveillance can reasonably be relied upon to capture the effects on the CME bitcoin futures market caused by a person attempting to manipulate the proposed futures [exchange-traded product] by manipulating the price of CME bitcoin futures contracts, whether that attempt is made by directly trading on the CME bitcoin futures market or indirectly by trading outside of the CME bitcoin futures market. As such, when the CME shares its surveillance information with Arca, the information would assist in detecting and deterring fraudulent or manipulative misconduct related to the non-cash assets held by the proposed ETP.”
In other words, the SEC believes the CME can identify futures market manipulation regardless of how it’s attempted, even if the CME futures market is based on the price of bitcoin in some spot markets.
As a footnote in the Teucrium approval notes, “the CME CF BRR aggregates the trade flow of major bitcoin spot platforms during a specific calculation window into a once-a-day reference rate of the U.S. dollar price of bitcoin.”
At the same time, the SEC says it does not believe that the CME’s specific surveillance tools would be able to identify manipulation of the spot market “even if the Exchange or the Sponsor had demonstrated a link between the BRR and/or the Index and the prices of CME bitcoin futures ETFs/ETPs and/or the proposed ETP, which they have not.”
Once again, we must turn to the footnotes for the real juice. In footnote 46 of the Teucrium order, the SEC states that its reasoning in approving a futures ETF based on the CME’s ability to spot futures market manipulation “does not extend to spot bitcoin ETPs. Spot bitcoin markets are not currently ‘regulated.’”
In other words, Gensler may indeed be holding the bitcoin ETF “hostage” in an effort to bring crypto exchanges under his agency’s regulatory umbrella.
So what does all this mean for the Grayscale appeal? Meh, who knows. The company staffed up and prepared for this in recent weeks, bringing on former Solicitor General Don Verrilli and having an appeal letter ready to go pretty much immediately.
Christopher LaVigne, a litigation partner at the law firm Withers, told CoinDesk that “Grayscale’s in an uphill battle here,” saying the law tends to be “deferential” to the SEC.
“It’s just whether they made that decision and exercised that discretion in a way that was completely arbitrary, completely capricious and had no grounding in the law,” he said. “I think that’s a hard standard to meet and it’s intentionally a deferential standard. Otherwise, all federal agencies’ decisions would be constantly second guessed and they’d be subject to an unending amount of litigation.”
Bloomberg Intelligence’s James Seyffart pointed out that other industries do have ETFs despite a regulated spot market during a Twitter Space we held last week.
“There's equity markets that the ISG does not have surveillance sharing agreements with, that we have ETFs for,” he said. “My overarching view is more so that the the SEC and Gary Gensler are holding these applications hostage until he can get regulation of the underlying spot market.”
So the next question may be what this actually looks like – it’s hard to see Congress moving swiftly to clarify when or how a crypto trading platform must register as a national securities exchange, and the SEC itself has yet to publish any proposed rule making on the matter.
Cheyenne Ligon contributed reporting.
The European Union’s landmark Markets in Crypto Assets regulation is essentially a done deal now. Jack Schickler explains:
Last week was a big news week in the European Union. The bloc’s Council and Parliament, the two bodies that need to agree on new laws, have done just that twice over – for a landmark Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA), and for identity checks on crypto payments. The latter is intended to stamp out money laundering, but with big consequences for privacy – and is an implementation of the international Travel Rule that’s proved so hard to apply in the crypto space.
The final deals seem to have steered clear of some near misses that had plenty of crypto companies sweating. In the end, the laws don’t ban the proof-of-work technology that underpins bitcoin, or impose endless checks on transfers to self-hosted wallets, or force decentralized finance players to register with the authorities (and who would fill out the form, anyway?).
In principle, MiCA offers a sweet deal to crypto companies – who, in exchange for jumping through the EU’s hoops, get to market their wares across the bloc, which is one of the biggest economies in the world. But there’s still some pretty major questions over exactly who will have to sign up to the new system, and whether stablecoin rules that are designed to avoid collapses like terraUSD’s (UST) might strangle the market all together. In particular, there’s a lot of confusion about what the MiCA deal means for non-fungible tokens (NFT) – and whether platforms like OpenSea will have to seek a license as the EU seeks to curb wash trades and other market abuses.
As the first major jurisdiction in the world to have such a comprehensive law, officials reckon they’re setting the tone for the rest of the world, and establishing the EU as the home of sound crypto. With the U.S. contemplating its own legislation on the issue, the bloc may not keep its lead very long.
CoinDesk reported both deals from the Room Where It Happened, here and here.
Read more: Here's What Still Needs to Happen Before the EU's MiCA Bill Becomes Law
Fed Vice Chair for Supervision nominee Michael Barr is inching closer to a vote from the Senate.
Biden Official Says US Government Could Pass Stablecoin Rules by End of Year: There is so much I want to unpack on the legislative front, but that’ll have to wait for another time. For now: An official in the administration tells me there's some real movement toward possible legislation on stablecoins by the end of 2022, though no specifics have emerged yet.
Three Arrows Paper Trail Leads to Trading Desk Obscured Via Offshore Entities: Three Arrows Capital was tied to an over-the-counter trading desk called Tai Ping Shen Capital, according to company documents. Sam Reynolds dives into this relationship and what it means for Three Arrows’s money.
Here's What Still Needs to Happen Before the EU's MiCA Bill Becomes Law: The European Union is closer to implementing its landmark Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) bill, but there's a few steps left. Jack Schickler explains.
Voyager Seeks Bankruptcy Protection Amid Crypto Credit Crisis: Crypto broker Voyager Digital has filed for bankruptcy. More on this next week.
Genesis Faces ‘Hundreds of Millions’ in Losses as 3AC Exposure Swamps Crypto Lenders: Sources: Genesis Trading is facing a nine-figure loss due to overexposure to Three Arrows and Babel Finance. (Disclosure: Genesis is another DCG subsidiary.)
(Bloomberg) Bloomberg takes a look at Heather Morgan (aka Razzlekhan) and Ilya Lichtenstein and asks whether they really could be the hackers behind Bitfinex’s 2016 theft.
(Trail of Bits) The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) contracted Trail of Bits to take a look at how blockchains might be vulnerable. Interestingly, they found that underlying infrastructure providers (read: ISPs) may be a bigger threat vector than just node operators. The report is worth a read.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
167,285,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/11/first-mover-americas-btc-struggles-to-hold-205k-and-twitter-shares-dip-6/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Struggles to Hold $20.5K and Twitter Shares Dip 6%,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for July 11, 2022.",2022-07-11,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: Bitcoin and Twitter shares are trading down Monday morning. More news unfolds from Three Arrow Capital's court documents, and traders think BTC could push back further in the short term.
Market Moves: Omkar Godbole reports that an on-chain indicator is suggesting bitcoin could be undervalued. Similar readings have marked bear market bottoms in the past.
Bitcoin (BTC) has been down 3.6% over the past 24 hours after trading $20,000 to $21,000 over the weekend.
The world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization began to show signs of resilience last week as it briefly traded above $22,000, registering its highest valuation since mid-June.
Bitcoin liquidations are showing longs to be substantially higher than shorts over the past 24 hours, data from Coinglass shows.
Shorts totaled $5.79 million and longs totaled $40.62 million.
“This could trigger sell orders at any time of the day,” said Laurent Kssis, head of Europe at Hashdex.
“We could test $20,000 before pushing back,” added Kssis.
Ether (ETH) is down 3% on the day, at $1,142. The only altcoins trading in the green Monday morning were privacy token monero (XMR) and tezos (XTC), up 5% and 3%, respectively.
Meanwhile, Twitter (TWTR) shares slipped in pre-market trading after Elon Musk decided to scrap his planned $44 billion takeover of the social media platform – causing fears that legal action could ensue.
TWTR shares on the New York Stock Exchange were trading down 6.55% at $34.40 at the time of writing.
Following the Three Arrows Capital debacle, the hedge fund recently got an emergency hearing as founders were failing to ""cooperate.""
In court documents filed late Friday in New York, lawyers acting on behalf of the creditors said that the founders of the fund “have not yet begun to cooperate with the [proceeding] in any meaningful manner.”
Creditors said that the fund’s remaining assets could be “transferred or otherwise disposed of” before creditors get their share. But first, creditors are requesting the court to obligate Three Arrows’s founders to list out the fund’s assets.
Terra developers migrate to Polygon
In other news, more than 48 projects previously on the Terra network have begun migrating to Polygon almost two months after the Terra ecosystem collapsed following the implosion of terraUSD (UST).
More than $20 million had been earmarked to help projects making the move.
Elsewhere, the Financial Stability Board (FSB), an international body that monitors financial systems and proposes rules with the goal of preventing financial crises, plans to present recommendations for regulating crypto in October, according to a Monday statement.
The FSB said it will propose recommendations for stablecoin regulation and submit a report on recommended rules for other crypto assets to the G-20.
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin in 'Accumulation' Phase, On-Chain Indicators Suggest
It's time to start stacking bitcoin again. That's the message from indicators tracking tokens sold by miners and comparing the cryptocurrency's market value to its fair value.
The Puell Multiple, calculated by dividing the daily issuance of bitcoins in U.S. dollar terms by the 365-day average of the value, has dropped into a ""green zone"" below 0.5, indicating the newly minted coins are undervalued relative to the yearly average.
In other words, the current profitability of those responsible for minting coins is relatively low. In the past, that's indicated a perfect opportunity to build long-term exposure to the cryptocurrency.
""Entering the green zone is a good time to average in, and for those more conservative, you can also wait for confirmation with a move out of the accumulation zone,"" analysts at Blockware Intelligence said in a newsletter published on Sunday.
The daily issuance refers to coins added to the ecosystem by miners, who receive them as rewards for verifying a new block of bitcoin transactions. Recently, many miners have reduced their crypto holdings to stay afloat as the value of the reward has fallen.
Undervalued readings on the Puell Multiple have marked previous bear market bottoms.
""The Puell Multiple has reached a territory consistent with market bottoms in the past (below 0.5 and even touching levels below 0.4 a few weeks ago),"" said Julio Moreno, a senior analyst at South Korea-based blockchain data from CryptoQuant.
Read the full story here: Bitcoin in 'Accumulation' Phase, On-Chain Indicators Suggest
CoinFlex Begins Arbitration Against $84M Delinquent Customer; FLEX Holders in Focus The company said it was speaking with depositors looking to help the business by “rolling some of their deposits into equity.”
KuCoin Denies Layoff Rumors, Says It's Hiring 300 Staff “We are continuing to do everything to increase the productivity and motivation of our employees,” CEO Johnny Lyu said.
ING Bank Spins Off Its Cryptocurrency Custody Platform to GMEX Group Crypto platform Pyctor will continue to work with the bank and collaborate through ING’s digital assets team.
Celsius Pivots Toward Paying Off Aave, Compound Debt, With $950M Collateral as Prize Troubled crypto-lender Celsius started to make good on the $258 million debt on the decentralized lending protocols Aave and Compound – possibly in an attempt to reclaim collateral it had posted as guarantees. The transactions come just a day after Celsius used a debt paydown to reclaim collateral on Maker.
Global Financial Watchdog FSB to Propose Crypto Regulations in October The Financial Stability Board said it will propose recommendations for stablecoin regulation and submit a report on recommended rules for other crypto assets to the G-20.
Bitcoin Will Make a Comeback, Rockefeller International Chairman Says “We need the excesses to get weeded out,” Ruchir Sharma told CoinDesk TV.
This web version of today's First Mover newsletter was produced by Sage D. Young."
168,280,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/11/global-financial-watchdog-fsb-to-propose-crypto-regulations-in-october/,Global Financial Watchdog FSB to Propose Crypto Regulations in October,The Financial Stability Board will recommend ways to oversee stablecoins and other digital assets to the G-20.,2022-07-11,"The Financial Stability Board (FSB), an international body that monitors financial systems and proposes rules with the goal of preventing financial crises, plans to present recommendations for regulating crypto in October, according to a statement on Monday.
The Basel, Switzerland-based organization reports to the Group of 20 of the world's largest economies. The recommendations will cover stablecoins and other crypto assets, the board said.
""The FSB is working to ensure that crypto assets are subject to robust regulation and supervision,"" the statement said, adding the recent ""turmoil"" in crypto markets highlights the intrinsic volatility and structural vulnerabilities as well as the increasing interconnectedness between crypto markets and the traditional financial system.
The crypto market downturn and collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin is accelerating regulatory action. In June, European Union policymakers agreed on a landmark bill to govern crypto issuers and service providers, with a heavy emphasis on rules for stablecoins, which are cryptocurrencies pegged to the value of other assets like sovereign currencies.
In February, the FSB published a report warning the unregulated crypto sector could derail global financial stability, not least because of its rapid growth. FSB Chairman Klaas Knot said in May that the watchdog is ""well placed"" to take the lead in setting up a ""coherent global regulatory framework for crypto assets.""
The FSB plans to submit a report to the G-20 in October on ""high-level recommendations for the regulation, supervision and oversight of stablecoins."" The proposed rules may include ways to extend existing frameworks to ""close gaps"" and implement recommended regulations.
The FSB also plans to submit a report with recommendations for ""promoting international consistency of regulatory and supervisory approaches to other crypto assets."""
169,283,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/11/terra-projects-begin-moving-to-polygon-months-after-ust-debacle/,Terra Projects Begin Moving to Polygon 2 Months After UST Debacle,Over $20 million had been earmarked to help projects that are migrating.,2022-07-11,"More than 48 projects previously on the Terra network have begun migrating to Polygon almost two months after the Terra network collapsed following the implosion of terraUSD (UST).
“Terra projects have begun migration,” Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt said in a tweet early Monday. “Over 48 projects and counting… including OnePlanet_NFT, an exclusive 0xPolygon marketplace and DerbyStars_HQ.”
In May, Polygon Studios announced a multimillion-dollar fund to assist Terra projects looking to switch. It was ready to pay as much as $20 million to help Terra teams migrate to Polygon's own blockchain to continue building products.
“For any project which wants to come from Terra to Polygon, we will be happy to provide them both financial assistance as well as technical assistance,” a spokesperson for Polygon told CoinDesk at the time. “We’ll provide them developers and everything.”
Developers behind other blockchain networks also courted Terra projects, among them Kadena, Cosmos and Avalanche, as previously reported.
UST, the Terra network’s algorithmic stablecoin that was designed to maintain its value by minting or burning exactly $1 worth of luna for 1 UST, fell to under 10 cents in May after losing its peg following investor outflows.
Excessive minting of luna to try to bring UST back to its peg caused prices of the governance token to fall by as much as 99.7%, while Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) applications saw over $28 billion in outflows."
170,278,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/12/policy-makers-should-get-on-with-regulating-crypto-boes-cunliffe-says/,"Policy Makers Should Get On With Regulating Crypto, BOE’s Cunliffe Says","The Bank of England’s deputy governor said regulators should accelerate crypto rulemaking. If certain risks involving crypto can’t be managed, related activities must be stopped.",2022-07-12,"Regulators should accelerate their work on setting up effective rules for crypto, Bank of England Deputy Governor Jon Cunliffe said.
“The lesson we should not take from this episode is that ‘crypto’ is somehow ‘over’ and we do not need to be concerned about it anymore,” Cunliffe said, according to text of a speech he gave at the British High Commission in Singapore on Tuesday, referring to the market decline some are calling a ""crypto winter.""
There has been “a dramatic bout of instability and losses in crypto markets,” Cunliffe said, with around $2 trillion wiped out of crypto markets in recent months. The meltdown has been exacerbated by the collapse of multibillion-dollar stablecoin issuer Terra and other participants including crypto lender Celsius and the Three Arrows Capital hedge fund.
Technology does not change the underlying risks in economics and finance, he said.
“Crypto technologies offer the prospect of substantive innovation and improvement in finance. But to be successful, sustainable innovation has to happen within a framework in which risks are managed. People don’t fly for long in unsafe airplanes.”
In light of recent events, international regulators are showing signs they are speeding up global crypto rules. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the global standard setter for banking regulations, is getting ready to issue guidance on the prudential treatment of crypto assets held by banks. Meanwhile, international financial watchdog the Financial Stability Board is looking to propose crypto regulations by October.
The collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) may have also quickened rules for all stablecoins, including those pegged to the value of real assets like the U.S. dollar. In June, policymakers in the European Union agreed on a landmark crypto regulatory framework called the Markets in Crypto Assets package that focuses heavily on stablecoin regulation.
The U.K. government is coordinating its efforts to produce stablecoin regulation that could come out by August. The Treasury, the government's finance arm, has already released a consultation for governing stablecoins that could influence larger financial systems. Regulators in the U.K. – including the Bank of England – hope to issue a consultation document on the regulatory policy framework of stablecoins later this year, Cunliffe said.
He added that crypto regulations should follow the principle of “same risk, same regulatory outcome” meaning regulators should try to extend existing financial rules to mitigate similar risks involving crypto.
But when that fails, regulators may have to take stronger measures.
""If and when for certain crypto related activities this proves not to be possible, where we can find no way to mitigate and manage the risk to the extent necessary, that is to say to the extent such risk is managed in other parts of the financial system, we should not let activities proceed,"" Cunliffe said."
171,282,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/12/satoshi-wept-how-crypto-replayed-the-2008-financial-crisis/,Satoshi Wept: How Crypto Replayed the 2008 Financial Crisis,Subtitle not found,2022-07-12,"“Banks must be trusted to hold our money and transfer it electronically, but they lend it out in waves of credit bubbles with barely a fraction in reserve.” – Satoshi Nakamoto, circa 2009
“They mistook leverage for genius.” – Steve Eisman, FrontPoint Partners, circa 2008 (portrayed by Steve Carrell in “The Big Short”)
“We are in the process of communicating with relevant parties and fully committed to working this out.” – Zhu Su, Three Arrows Capital, June 15, 2022
Over the past eight weeks a series of seemingly robust pillars of the cryptocurrency industry have fallen. They knocked each other over like dominoes, and as they hit the ground they shattered. Our pillars, it turns out, were made of glass.
A misguided bet nukes the balance sheet of a “hedge fund” that forgot to hedge. Tanking markets trigger margin calls for shadow banks masquerading as crypto lenders, which in turn freeze customer balances. Long-dated illiquid bonds leave nearly everybody in the lurch. Counterparties default on massive loans.
And, just like that, hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of notional value is gone.
On July 6, FTX exchange founder and CEO Sam Bankman-Fried declared that this catastrophic crypto industry unwind was nearly over. Even if that’s true, the work of understanding what actually happened has barely begun. Thanks to crypto infrastructure, the web of relationships and obligations have been somewhat more visible than would have been the case in traditional markets. But there are still a lot of details to be unearthed.
On the other hand, in broad strokes, we know exactly what happened: leverage, debt and other counterparty relationships based on bullish market bets melted down when those bets didn’t pan out. The cryptocurrency market has dropped by roughly two-thirds, but it was leverage that turned that drop into a death sentence for some companies and many of their customers’ balances.
It's all so tiresome. All so familiar. All so much like the 2008 financial crisis that fueled widespread interest in cryptocurrency in the first place.
The irony is rich and getting richer: Some of the failing entities even got “bailouts” of a sort, in the form of private lines of credit and buyouts. It seems that always and everywhere, capital crises and “Star Wars” prequels are like poetry: they rhyme.
Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin (BTC) were often premised on the elimination or reduction of such leverage from the new financial system. But the Great Crypto Unwind has shown that even a non-counterparty bearer instrument, ideal for preventing such crises, can and will be subverted by financial engineers with warm smiles and treachery in their hearts. However much we think we’ve learned, human frailty still trends towards greed, recklessness and, in the end, chaos.
Read More: Why This Crypto Crash Is Different
There is still much we don’t know about crypto’s Great Unwind. But here’s one attempt at a first draft of history.
First, some context.
The persistent and sometimes frenetic enthusiasm for the Bitcoin project since its creation in 2009 has had a lot to do with timing. Pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto launched the original cryptocurrency in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis, in which the declining value of a small set of assets caused cascading failures among a rat’s nest of financial institutions tightly linked by shared debt and similar obligations.
Those intertwined obligations sent the entire financial and banking world into a spiral when they went bad, killing or maiming major institutions like Lehman Brothers and AIG, respectively, and leaving others on death’s door. In turn, the resulting credit squeeze sent the global economy into a years-long Ice Age, effectively leaving all of us holding the bag for the big banks’ irresponsible decisions.
The resulting rage was present almost from the earliest days of the Bitcoin project. The original white paper is dry and mostly technical, but pre-launch discussions among developers were much more pointed. By the time the Bitcoin blockchain went live, criticism of banks had become nearly a doctrine: Bitcoin’s first block contained a reference to U.K. banking bailouts.
Thirteen years later, parts of the industry spawned by Satoshi’s brainchild have come to resemble those hated enemies. A wave of collapses has hit centralized “crypto banks” that used customer funds to make leveraged bets. Investment funds exploited the opacity of their centralized balance sheets to hide their risk profiles and harvest loans that have left creditors in the lurch.
Some of those troubled entities, such as the lending platform BlockFi, have even gotten “bailouts” in the form of giant private loans. Those bailouts are mostly better described as buyouts, and don’t present the same immense moral hazard as the taxpayer-funded 2008 bailouts of degenerate gamblers at Citigroup and Bank of America. The entities getting fresh capital this year are the ones private investors (above all, Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX) see as viable in the long term.
Other entities, including Celsius, Three Arrows Capital and Voyager Digital have been deemed unworthy of new money and are moving towards bankruptcy, collapse or liquidation – and taking a lot of depositor money with them.
Finance is ultimately a way of turning promises about the future into money. It’s a way to get paid now based on something that might (or might not) happen in two or five or 10 years. This is especially true for crypto, with token and equity values alike often hinging on someone’s huge vision of a far-distant technological revolution.
Few visions of the future have faded as quickly or ignominiously as that of Do Kwon, founder of the Luna ecosystem and its TerraUSD algorithmic “stablecoin.” TerraUSD was ultimately revealed to be, in essence, a Ponzi scheme, propped up by unsustainable interest paid on deposits in a pseudo-bank called Anchor.
In the narrative of the Great Unwind, LUNA is the most dramatic culprit on the asset and technology side. Other assets that weakened crypto institutions caused liquidity problems, but LUNA/terraUSD (UST) were the only crypto assets that simply collapsed to effectively zero thanks to bad tokenomic design. It’s quite impressive – you really have to work to send a crypto token to zero. Even the native token of the largely defunct 2017 ICO-era chain EOS, once worth $4.4 billion, is now worth more than LUNA.
Like most such scams, the LUNA Ponzi only worked as long as markets trended upwards. When those markets began to reverse at the end of 2021, the writing on the wall was clear enough that many early, big-money shills dumped their bags. When LUNA fully unwound in May, it destroyed $68 billion worth of paper value in a matter of days – one of the most dizzying single wealth-destroying events in peacetime history.
That collapse would have been bad enough in isolation. The stories of individual users losing their life savings in Anchor are bleak. But some high-profile and supposedly smart money managers also failed this financial IQ test – and that’s where the real trouble began.
If the LUNA collapse was the spark that set off the Great Unwind, Three Arrows Capital was the dynamite factory where the spark landed. And there was a whole lot of dynamite.
With a reported $18 billion in assets under management at its peak, Three Arrows, also known as 3AC, was a mix of venture fund and hedge fund. It has been alleged it was also secretly operating as a prime brokerage service, letting friendly partners trade on its accounts. 3AC co-founders Su Zhu and Kyle Davies were darlings of the crypto world for years, and the fund was generally believed to be working entirely with its own money – a so-called “prop shop.”
But as its various bets went bad, it became increasingly clear that 3AC was engaged in a variety of serious deceptions. Most brazenly, the fund appears to have borrowed large amounts from a variety of counterparties that were each unaware of the fund’s total debt levels. Now, Three Arrows is in liquidation and Zhu and Davies' whereabouts are described as “unknown” in filings by their own legal team – though Zhu did break a lengthy Twitter silence on the morning of July 12.
Read More: US Bankruptcy Court Approves Foreign Administrator for Three Arrows Capital's Debt
Such profligate, opaque borrowing is similar to the moves that led Lehman Brothers to the boneyard in 2008. It also echoes the 1998 collapse of Long Term Capital Management, and the more recent leveraged blowout of Bill Hwang’s Archegos fund. During the 2008 crisis, U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke reportedly saw Lehman as the most reckless of the big investment banks exposed to mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps. In accounts of the era, there’s a strong sense that Lehman CEO Dick Fuld was as personally arrogant as he was in his financial dealings.
That’s also a common thread with Three Arrows. Much like Lehman’s real estate position, 3AC’s positions amounted to an immense leveraged long, in this case largely on the price of bitcoin. Zhu Su had articulated a “supercycle” theory that he said would send bitcoin to $100,000 or higher. So when the broader market began to slump in November of 2021, Three Arrows was already a dead man walking. The following flood of margin calls and redemption notices simply exposed its failures.
And 3AC had made even higher-risk bets than leveraged BTC longs: You guessed it, it was waist-deep in LUNA. Three Arrows reportedly invested $200 million in LUNA in February. That stake grew to as much as $600 million on paper as LUNA enjoyed a huge run-up. It is now worth effectively zero.
In a bit of striking poetry, though, LUNA was just one of three mortal wounds that took out 3AC. The other two were not frauds, but illiquid bonds the fund couldn’t sell when it needed cash to cover its loans: stETH (Lido staked ETH) and GBTC, the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust. (Grayscale and CoinDesk have the same parent company, Digital Currency Group.)
Back in January 2021, 3AC announced a $1.2 billion position in GBTC. GBTC, essentially a kludgy legal workaround for institutions that want BTC exposure, cannot be easily swapped for its underlying bitcoin. This isn’t much of a problem in bullish periods – when 3AC bought in, GBTC was trading at a premium of nearly 20% above bitcoin, arguably because it had few competitors for institutional access.
But almost as soon as Three Arrows bought in, GBTC holders started taking profits off that premium, and competitors arrived in the form of Canadian bitcoin ETFs. By August 2021, the trust had flipped from trading at a premium to trading at a discount of roughly 15%. This meant Three Arrows was deeply underwater on its massive GBTC position.
Read More: FSInsight Accuses Three Arrows Capital of Running a ‘Madoff-Style Ponzi Scheme’
The GBTC discount has now widened to more than 30%, a potentially insane buying opportunity for long-term BTC bulls with cash on hand. But Castle Island’s Matt Walsh has speculated that the GBTC disconnect was the first shoe to drop for Three Arrows, which found itself locked into a degraded GBTC position and took bigger and bigger risks – including in LUNA – as it desperately tried to fill the hole.
Then, following that plague of locusts, came stETH. StETH is a token issued in exchange for ETH staked through the Lido protocol. It will convert to ETH at an uncertain future date when the Ethereum proof-of-stake Merge is complete.
That makes it essentially a tokenized, zero-coupon ETH bond with an unknown maturity. StETH can be bought and sold but it can’t be used on Ethereum, so it’s fairly natural that it trades at a discount against ETH. 3AC’s apparently forced stETH sale came when that discount was ranging at around 10%, a potentially devastating haircut even ignoring ETH’s own swooning price (it has fallen about two-thirds in 2022 so far), compared to returns if 3AC had been liquid enough to wait for the Merge.
Between these illiquid bets, its massive screwup on LUNA and the macro-driven decline in bitcoin, 3AC faced an insurmountable wave of margin calls from exchanges where it had traded. It also had large, sometimes unsecured loans.
It now appears that, despite a cryptic tweet from Su Zhu on June 14, 3AC was not in fact “committed to working this out” with its array of creditors. Instead, it has ghosted exchanges and other counterparties. Genesis Trading, another CoinDesk sibling company, was taken for “hundreds of millions of dollars.” Other exchanges were able to liquidate 3AC’s books and made it out more or less intact – BitMEX, for instance, says 3AC still owes it $6 million.
Those victims, it turns out, got off easy.
Lending platform Voyager Digital, in a demonstration of just how trusted Three Arrows was, gave the fund a reported $650 million in unsecured loans – that is, loans without collateral that could be called in if things went south. Voyager declared bankruptcy this week largely because, with Three Arrows now in liquidation, it’s unclear if or when it will get even a portion of those funds back. It seems Voyager’s retail depositors shouldn’t expect all of their money back.
Read More: Three Arrows Paper Trail Leads to Trading Desk Obscured Via Offshore Entities
Lenders and exchanges were far from the only entities that got “rugged” by Three Arrows’ bizarre disappearing act. A spokesperson for a protocol 3AC invested in claimed that the fund had also managed the project’s treasury, which is now just as gone as all the rest of the money. Moreover, according to the same source, 3AC enticed projects to deposit with it by offering 8% interest. That high fixed rate suggests this may have been less a generous service than a way for Zhu and Davies to get more chips with which to gamble.
This and other behaviors have led at least some to conclude Three Arrows was not simply a failed hedge fund but an outright scam. Castle Island’s Walsh, on his firm’s “On the Brink” podcast, vociferously condemned Three Arrows’s alleged actions.
“This is not just some bad investing,” said Walsh. “Based on what we’re starting to learn about Three Arrows, this is a massive fraud. This is a Bernie Madoff-style fraud. These are bad people.”
3AC’s shenanigans will have echoing long-term effects as the lenders and startups who lost funds run out of money entirely. But it took another class of dingus to turn the same speculative screwups into immediate, searing pain for individual, crypto-novice retail investors.
Opaque and centralized “lending platforms” including Celsius and Babel Finance were exposed to 3AC, LUNA, stETH, and other risks, largely because they were chasing outsized returns and taking huge risks to deliver them. Voyager’s $650 million unsecured loan to Three Arrows may have also been yield-chasing, and in retrospect looks like the equivalent of jumping out of a plane without a parachute. Amid all this, another lending platform, BlockFi, managed to only wipe out $1 billion in investor funds. So kudos to them, I guess.
These risks were concealed from depositors, for whom Celsius’s sales pitch – “Unbank Yourself” – turned out to be terrifyingly accurate.
Voyager’s huge unsecured loan to Three Arrows may go down as the single stupidest transaction of the 2022 crypto unwind. But the case of the lending platforms is a good bit more nuanced and interesting.
It's helpful to understand the difference between Celsius and its ilk and “decentralized finance,” or DeFi, a category with which the lenders often misleadingly affiliated themselves. At the highest level, DeFi protocols run entirely on the blockchain while Celsius, BlockFi, Babel and the like were traditional centralized financial entities that would put your money in DeFi and other investments and reap profits on your behalf. They sold themselves as an alternative to traditional banks that still had “DeFi” cool, vastly increasing the eventual damage inflicted. This is why they’re sometimes referred to derogatorily as “CeFi” – centralized wolves in decentralized sheep’s clothing.
Because behind the scenes they were closer to being some kind of fixed-return hedge fund, engaging in constant high-risk gambling with depositors’ money. And, yet again, these hedge funds forgot to hedge.
By contrast, decentralized finance trading, stablecoin and lending protocols including MakerDAO, Compound and Curve have been basically unscathed by the big crash. They’ve lost a lot of users and volume, but they haven’t wound up in massive debt because the protocols themselves can’t really take on leverage. Instead, all loans are overcollateralized – that is, you have to post something like $2,000 worth of ETH to borrow $1,000 worth of something else, and you’ll get automatically liquidated if your collateral drops below or near your borrowing.
These rules can’t be bent. It would have been completely impossible, then, for 3AC to take out a huge unsecured loan from Compound, which is why Compound is still running and Voyager Digital is roadkill. In a grim bit of comedy, Celsius just repaid a $183 million loan from Compound to redeem its collateral, even as withdrawals from Celsius remain locked and Voyager prays to every God in heaven to get back pennies on its insane unbacked loan to 3AC.
So as crazy as it might sound to use a bank or asset exchange with no owners, that very lack of a backstop forced the systems to build with extremely conservative financial assumptions. The humans, it turns out, were always the dangerous ones.
And perhaps no human lender was more dangerous than Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky, who matched or outdid Do Kwon for bluster, bombast and bad ideas, right up until the day before his operation imploded under his feet.
Read more: Blockchain.com, Deribit Among Creditors That Pushed for 3AC Liquidation: Report
Celsius was founded on the premise that it would accept retail crypto deposits, then loan those tokens to institutional traders at high rates. For a time, there was enough loan demand to make this work. But eventually Celsius started engaging in much riskier behavior as it searched for high yields for all of its reported $12 billion under management.
The shift to higher-risk strategies was likely thanks to increased deposits in response to its high yield offerings, combined with declines in institutional interest as the crypto market started to cool in late 2021. Celsius started out making mostly collateralized loans to institutional traders, though they misrepresented this, even early on. From there, they eventually progressed to engaging in degen-level yield farming by staking customer funds to every DeFi protocol under the sun.
This was a much higher-risk strategy, and in some cases, as with an estimated $50 million lost in the hack of BadgerDAO, it blew up in Celsius’s face. In another case, Mashinsky got ridiculously lucky. Celsius reportedly began depositing on LUNA’s Anchor system in December, where it would have collected something like 20% nominal yield – more than enough to cover its payouts to depositors, with a bit extra off the top. But Celsius just barely managed to pull out $500 million before that system completely melted down in May. That’s nearly the dictionary definition of “picking up nickels in front of a steamroller” – taking immense, opaque risks for modestly above-average returns. And, in this case, doing it with other people’s money.
Celsius managed to dodge that steamroller. But if you play stupid games, you eventually win stupid prizes. If his representations of Celsius as safe and stable are determined to have been deceptive to depositors, Alex Mashinsky could wind up with the same prize already awarded to another former Celsius officer: a pair of handcuffs.
Though we’ve inevitably left out a few details, that’s the basic outline of the Great Crypto Unwind. But its impacts were felt far beyond those who were directly exposed to entities like Three Arrows, Celsius or Voyager Digital. For much the same reason that a deflating real estate market locked up the entire economy in 2008, problems at a few crypto entities have echoed far and wide.
The easiest way to see this is simply in the price of blue chip crypto assets like bitcoin and ether. Granted, those prices began steadily declining starting back in November 2021 because of macroeconomic conditions, and those pressures have continued in parallel with the impact of the credit unwind.
But if you look at specific dates, it’s not hard to pin steep, sudden price declines on C-Suite frauds and jumped-up degens.
The depegging of UST became publicly obvious between May 9 and May 12 of this year, while BTC dropped a staggering 27% between May 5 and May 11. Though the UST depeg likely didn’t involve bitcoin directly, it would have created a lot of granular BTC sell-pressure for those covering LUNA losses. It also, more obviously, created a kind of confidence contagion, since many new crypto entrants didn’t seem to understand the distinction between LUNA and other assets.
Just over a month later, problems at Three Arrows became public as early as June 14. This coincided with another gigantic macro dump, as BTC cratered a further 26% between June 12 and June 17. Again, this involved some vague loss of confidence, but we know that Three Arrows was in the process of various liquidation strategies, so in this case there was likely some direct sell pressure.
In both cases, you’ll notice that the dumps began shortly before bad news made it to public sites like CoinDesk. That points to a difficult truth not so much about crypto as about financial markets overall – whatever the rules say, insiders often know what’s happening first thanks to whisper networks that mere plebs can never hope to access. Sometimes a dump is just a dump, but other times it’s a hint at very bad news around the corner.
It’s a bit early to look for many lessons in this mess because there may yet be other shoes to drop – other entities that were overleveraged or made reckless loans to the overleveraged, but have managed to hang on for a few weeks or months without revealing their mistake.
One important insight for those trying to dodge falling shoes: Companies that were late entrants to the crypto game were far more likely to be making leveraged bets as they tried to catch up to more established players. One reason Alameda Research is in a position to rescue flailing partners is that it was founded in 2017 and has apparently relied mostly on organic growth.
Longer term, I recommend filing away the names of individual culprits and holding on to the list for future reference. Character and judgment obviously count when people are asking to manage your money, and figures like Do Kwon, Alex Mashinsky, Su Zhu and Kyle Davies clearly came up short on one or both of those measures. They deserve to be banished from the finance industry for the rest of their lives. At least in some cases, that will happen – I’d bet it’s tough to run a shadow bank from prison.
But the more important questions are systemic. Obviously, there was way too much borrowing going on, and widely trusted individuals seem to have lied about their debt. That’s theoretically a regulatory issue. But even if it were universally desired, a global crypto regulatory regime doesn’t seem very plausible right now.
There’s a lot more potential in a social solution that doubles down on crypto’s original vision of self-custody. Remember, depositors in Celsius actually sent their bitcoin to a guy on the internet, and that’s why they don’t have it now. By a similar token (ahem), a percentage of Celsius users got rooked by collecting their “yield” in a corporate s**tcoin, CEL.
Many retail victims of these cons and failures will be turned off crypto for a long time, if not permanently. That’s a harm to the vision we came here to pursue, and it will take principled operators to rebuild trust overall. On the other hand, for many people, there’s no education quite like getting ripped off. We have to hope they’ll spend some time thinking about where exactly they went wrong, and help educate others about what crypto really has to offer.
That’s been a big part of the aftermath of previous crypto cycles. But the truth is, thanks to leverage and a few centralized players, this one likely hurts far worse than even the brutal 2018-2019 Crypto Winter. At least when your garbage 2017 ICO became valueless, you got to keep the tokens and vaguely think, “well, maybe someday!”
But thanks to malign and incompetent figures like Alex Mashinsky and Do Kwon, a lot of potential crypto converts have been left with nothing at all."
172,284,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/13/former-crypto-adviser-michael-barr-confirmed-as-top-us-financial-watchdog/,Former Crypto Adviser Michael Barr Confirmed as Top US Financial Watchdog,"The Senate approved the appointment of Barr, an ex-Ripple adviser who served in Obama’s Treasury Dept., as the Fed’s new vice chair for supervision.",2022-07-13,"Michael Barr, a former Ripple adviser, is set to assume one of the most important U.S. regulatory roles after winning Senate confirmation to be vice chairman for supervision at the Federal Reserve.
Barr, who was a key Treasury Department official during the administration of former President Barack Obama, will take over as the leading U.S. banking watchdog, where he’ll have a say in how the traditional financial system interacts with cryptocurrencies – especially stablecoins, the lifeblood of crypto transactions.
President Joe Biden nominated Barr in April for what could be the most powerful job in financial regulation. The Senate confirmed his nomination Wednesday in a 66-28 vote. The Fed supervises Wall Street banking and – since the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act – also has a duty to oversee nonbank financial firms that play an outsized role in the financial system. Though he’ll technically be outranked by Fed Chair Jerome Powell, the chairman has said publicly that he’ll defer to the vice chair on financial oversight matters.
Barr will have an influential voice in global standard-setting organizations and at home on the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is considering how to approach stablecoins. If that council of agency chiefs formally declares the tokens a systemically important financial activity, the group can push member agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate them. Barr will also be arriving in the wake of the terraUSD implosion, which could lend some fuel to the government’s efforts to put up guardrails.
Barr, who is currently the public policy school dean at the University of Michigan Law School, will also arrive at the Fed with a significant crypto background, having served on the advisory board at Ripple Labs. When he took that job in 2015 he said that he thought ""innovation in payments can help make the financial system safer, reduce cost and improve access and efficiency for consumers and businesses alike.”
However, the crypto industry may not be assured that an unabashed ally is taking the wheel. Barr is widely seen as a consumer advocate who supports aggressive regulation, favoring the interests of individuals over financial firms. And there’s some record of his crypto doubts.
A 2020 paper he co-authored cited research that assets such as bitcoin (BTC) “not only generate huge mining costs, but are also inefficient in their long-run design.”
During his tenure, the Fed is also expected to decide whether to issue a digital dollar – a move that could send shockwaves through the crypto industry. Barr’s academic work has suggested a central bank digital currency (CBDC) could boost the government’s financial inclusion aims. If such a CBDC is produced, its effect on private, dollar-based stablecoins could be profound.
Barr's confirmation enjoyed wide bipartisan approval, with a number of Republicans voting to give him the job. Such an outcome wasn’t necessarily assured for this key financial post. The previous nominee – Sarah Bloom Raskin, another Treasury veteran who had already served on the Fed board – had to withdraw after vigorous opposition.
Read more: Digital Dollar Could Be Good for Financial Stability, US Federal Researchers Say"
173,66,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/14/circles-detailed-reserve-report-shows-only-cash-short-term-treasurys-back-usdc-stablecoin/,"Circle’s Detailed Reserve Report Shows Only Cash, Short-Term Treasurys Back USDC Stablecoin",The asset breakdown comes at a time when crypto firms and their finances are under increasing scrutiny in the ongoing crypto credit crisis.,2022-07-14,"Circle Internet Financial released a detailed – though unaudited – breakdown of its reserve assets for the firm’s USD coin (USDC) that showed $42.1 billion in short-term U.S. government bonds and $13.6 billion in cash.
The asset breakdown, published in a blog post by the company Thursday, shows that as of June 30 Circle held $42.1 billion of U.S. Treasury bonds with an average maturity of 44 days, with the latest expiry date being Sept. 29. A bond is considered to be short-term when its maturity is less than three months. The document also listed the bonds’ individual identifier, the so-called CUSIP number.
Circle also held $13.6 billion in cash at U.S.-regulated financial institutions, namely at the Bank of New York Mellon, Citizens Trust Bank, Customers Bank, New York Community Bank, Signature Bank, Silicon Valley Bank, Silvergate Bank and US Bancorp, according to the document.
The $55.7 billion in assets Circle claims is slightly higher than the 55.4 billion USDC tokens in circulation. USDC is supposed to hold a 1:1 peg to the U.S. dollar.
“While U.S. policymakers work to enact federal regulations for stablecoins, Circle continues to increase our transparency based on new industry innovations and what USDC holders within our ecosystem would like to see,” Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Fox-Geen said in the post.
The report was not audited, per the document, but it offered a more detailed glimpse into the reserve assets backing the stablecoin, the second largest by market cap and with a circulating supply of $55 billion.
The report comes amid an ongoing credit crisis in the crypto markets, kick-started by the multibillion-dollar implosion of the Terra blockchain in May as the then-third-largest stablecoin depegged from the U.S. dollar.
Crypto firms’ finances are under increasing scrutiny, with various crypto lenders and investment firms facing liquidity problems and applying for bankruptcy protection.
While stablecoins are supposed to maintain a stable price anchored to an asset such as the dollar, several stablecoins lost their price peg in the Terra implosion aftermath, including Tron’s USDD and neutrino USD (USDN). The price peg of Tether’s USDT, the largest stablecoin with a $66 billion market capitalization, also wobbled for a brief period.
Since May, USDC has gained in market share at the expense of USDT. Data by crypto market data tracker CoinGecko shows that while USDT had $17 billion in redemptions, USDC grew by $7 billion as holders flocked to the perceived safer asset.
Read more: Circle Asks US Fed Not to Step on Its Toes by Launching a Digital Dollar
CORRECTION (22:40 UTC): This article has been corrected with the accurate spelling of Jeremy Fox-Geen's last name."
174,277,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/15/crypto-vc-investments-drop-26-in-first-half-of-2022/,Crypto VC Investments Drop 26% in First Half of 2022,"Investments totaled $9.3 billion versus the $12.5 billion in last year’s period, but the number of deals increased.",2022-07-15,"Venture capital (VC) investments in crypto companies were down 26% in the first half of the year, a period hit by cryptocurrency price drops, the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin and liquidity crises faced by crypto lender Celsius and crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital.
Investments in crypto companies totaled $9.3 billion in the first six months of 2022, down from the record $12.5 billion in the first half of last year, according to Crunchbase data.
Deal flow actually increased year-over-year from 456 deals to 534 deals, indicating that smaller deal sizes helped drive the lower overall investments.
Second quarter deals totaled more than $4.2 billion, roughly flat compared to the same period last year and only down $1 billion from the first quarter.
Venture capital investments are down across multiple industries due to the global bear market. Overall VC deals in the U.S. were down 22% year-over-year to $123.1 billion in the first half of the year, according to GlobalData.
Crypto investments faced particularly difficult comparisons due to their strength last year, which included a record $6.1 billion in investments during the fourth quarter.
The broader pullback didn’t stop Andreessen Horowitz (a16z) from launching a record-breaking $4.5 billion crypto fund in May.
Read More: Multicoin Capital Announces $430M Venture Fund for Crypto Startups"
175,279,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/18/stablecoin-bill-wont-force-all-issuers-to-be-banks-congressman-says/,"Stablecoin Bill Won’t Force All Issuers to Be Banks, Congressman Says",The key legislation that could open a path for stablecoin rules isn’t expected to stick to regulators’ recommendation to insist only banks put out tokens.,2022-07-18,"Congress may rebuff U.S. regulators who wanted stablecoins to be the exclusive territory of banks, according to a lawmaker familiar with a legislative effort now in motion.
Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee have been working on requirements that may not be as restrictive as the Treasury Department and financial regulators had requested. The bill is expected to allow a path for nonbank firms to become government-approved stablecoin issuers, said Rep. Jim Himes, (D-Conn.), who is a senior member of the committee and one of its subcommittee chairmen but isn’t working directly on the legislation.
Some lawmakers have already openly predicted that it’s possible to get a bill out soon that sets rules of the road for stablecoins – a vital component of today’s cryptocurrency markets. But such a bill requires action from House Democrats.
“Apparently, we'll have options for both banks and non banks,” Himes told CoinDesk in an interview. He said Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and the ranking Republican on the committee, Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), have been working together on a narrow, stablecoins-only bill, and it’s expected to establish “standards for reserves” for more than one kind of issuer.
That concession could run counter to last year’s report from the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets that recommended the tokens only be offered by “insured depository institutions, which are subject to appropriate supervision and regulation.”
Stablecoins, including dollar-tied tokens such as Tether’s USDT and Circle Internet Financial’s USD coin (USDC), are meant to offer a stable means of moving in and out of more volatile cryptocurrencies, but for financial watchdogs fearful of runs, they also represent crypto’s most alarming sector.
While the details of the legislation may not match one of the central requests from regulators, the working group also asked that “Congress act promptly to enact legislation” – an apparent aim of the committee leaders.
“There is broad agreement that legislation is necessary,” McHenry said in an emailed statement, adding that the “best way to get this done” is in a bipartisan approach similar to the crypto bill he introduced late last year.
In recent months, Republican lawmakers have argued against keeping stablecoins entirely boxed into banking. A proposal from Sen. Patrick Toomey (R-Pa.) suggested a new federal license just for stablecoin issuers who could do that business alongside traditional depository institutions, and McHenry contended earlier this year that “requiring stablecoins to only be issued by banks would be a major obstacle for us continuing to foster innovation.”
It’s unclear exactly how the current House bill would allow for nonbank stablecoin issuers, and people familiar with the effort say negotiations remain underway among lawmakers, so the details are still being worked out. Meanwhile, the Biden administration is trying to encourage speed.
Treasury officials have been working with Congress, but a department spokesman said he couldn’t comment on the discussions.
Last month, both Toomey and McHenry suggested a stablecoin bill could be completed this year – an against-the-odds assertion that suggests some Republicans are willing to make deals to let a bipartisan bill through the evenly split Senate. A Biden administration official also told CoinDesk last month that legislation could be passed by the end of the year.
“The big question – always – is can you get 60 votes in the Senate?” Himes said, suggesting that Toomey’s support could help. Still, Himes said he’s been telling people that “there’s nothing legislatively coming out of this Congress.”
That would mean a stablecoin bill would have to wait for the next session, and an influx of new members that may shift the majority to the Republicans next year.
The historic trend for major financial legislation is that it’s often driven by a crisis. So far, U.S. regulators continue to argue that the damage being wrought in today’s crypto sector isn’t significant enough to threaten the rest of the financial system. Still, the terraUSD fiasco illustrated the costly vulnerabilities of certain stablecoins and lent energy to lawmakers, who are focusing more attention on the industry.
“It's actually been great to watch my colleagues on both sides of the aisle really kind of educate themselves on these issues,” said Himes, who has a background in finance as a former banker at Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. “Five years ago, if you'd said cryptocurrency, there'd be two people in this building who would know what the hell you're talking about.”
Dante Disparte, Circle’s chief strategy officer, released policy principles for stablecoins on Monday, insisting that it’s time for Washington to act.
“The preservation of bank and non-bank dollar digital currency issuance promotes competition, a level playing field, and rules-based upgrades in the financial system,” according to one of the company’s policy assertions.
“We have been engaged with Congress quite a bit,” Nellie Liang, Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic finance, said Monday about the discussions over stablecoin legislation. At a Financial Service Forum event in Washington, Liang — who said digital assets have a “potential to really fundamentally reform payments” — continued to argue that U.S. regulators can't properly oversee this sector without action from lawmakers.
UPDATE (July 18, 2022, 14:45 UTC): Adds additional information.
UPDATE (July 18, 2022, 15:35 UTC): Adds a quote from Treasury Undersecretary Nellie Liang."
176,292,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/19/realized-losses-might-prove-bitcoins-gain-if-signaling-a-market-bottom-glassnode-says/,"'Realized Losses' Might Prove Bitcoin's Gain if Signaling a Market Bottom, Glassnode Says",Sell-off waves are tallying record realized losses and pushing HOLDer saturation towards previous bear-market recovery levels.,2022-07-19,"Signs of seller exhaustion are creating conditions that resemble a market bottom for bitcoin (BTC), according to a report from blockchain analysis firm Glassnode.
Realized losses, or the losses incurred by selling assets, show the extent of investor capitulation. The magnitude can be charted using blockchain data.
The stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and its companion token LUNA’s collapse in May triggered a wave of realized losses totaling $28 billion over 30 days, according to Glassnode. When crypto prices plunged below the 2017 all-time high on June 18th, realized losses jumped to a record high of $36 billion over 30 days.
As retail and short-term investors are purged from the market during these mass sell-offs, the saturation of ""HODLers,"" or the cohort of price-insensitive long-term investors, swells. The more HODLers there are, the stabler crypto prices become and the likelier it is that the market has bottomed out.
Over 80% of the dollar (USD) wealth stored in bitcoin is now older than three months, signaling the sell-off waves in May and June have exhausted nearly all short-term traders.
This percentage coincides with data from the end of the 2012, 2015 and 2018 bear market bottoms, which all occurred when the USD wealth older than three months climbed above 80%.
“Against a backdrop of extremely challenging macroeconomic and geopolitical turmoil, bitcoin is reaching peak investor saturation by high conviction HODLers, and it is becoming quite plausible that a genuine bottom formation could be underway,” Glassnode wrote."
177,291,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/19/singapore-based-crypto-firms-leading-market-meltdown-were-not-regulated-central-bank-chief-says/,"'Singapore-based' Crypto Firms Leading Market Meltdown Were Not Regulated, Central Bank Chief Says","Troubled companies like Three Arrows – reported by the media as being based in Singapore – have ""little to do"" with local crypto regulations, said the head of the Monetary Authority.",2022-07-19,"Ravi Menon, managing director of the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), says troubled crypto firms reported by the media as being based in Singapore are not fully regulated in the country.
Menon focused in particular on crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and Singapore-registered companies TerraForm Labs and Vauld during a press briefing for the presentation of the central bank's annual report.
""In reality, these so-called “Singapore-based” crypto firms have little to do with crypto-related regulation in Singapore,"" Menon said.
Crypto markets have shed around $2 trillion in a matter of weeks during the recent market downturn, prompting Singapore – a jurisdiction that took a leading role in setting up a regulatory framework for crypto companies – to harden its position on digital assets.
The MAS, the country's central bank, is continuing to distance itself from embattled crypto firms with ties to the Southeast Asian nation. In June, the MAS reprimanded Singapore-born Three Arrows Capital, which is currently facing liquidation, for allegedly misleading regulators with false information and exceeding the threshold of assets it could manage in Singapore.
Menon said the fund was not regulated under the country's Payment Services Act.
""It had operated under the registered fund management regime to carry out limited fund management business, but had ceased to manage funds in Singapore prior to the problems leading to its insolvency,"" Menon said.
TerraForm Labs and the Luna Foundation, responsible for the collapsed stablecoin terraUSD (UST), are not licensed or regulated by MAS, according to Menon. TerraForm Labs is a Singapore-registered company but its address is of a registration agent that houses hundreds of Singaporean companies.
Menon also said crypto firm Vauld, which suspended transactions in early July and has a registration address in Singapore, is currently not licensed by MAS but has submitted a license application, which is pending review.
The central bank chief also said that most crypto regulators to date have focused on containing money laundering and terrorist financing risks, and that regulations do not cover consumer protection, market conduct or reserve backing for stablecoins.
""This is changing. Reviews and public consultations are underway among international standard-setting bodies and regulators to strengthen regulation in these areas,"" Menon said. He said the bank will consult on proposed measures in the coming months.
Menon said the bank will take ""firm enforcement action"" if any company is caught providing regulated services without a license. MAS will be ""brutal and unrelentingly hard"" on bad behavior in the crypto industry, Sopnendu Mohanty, the bank's chief fintech officer, said in June.
Read more: Singapore's Central Bank Weighs Further Safeguards on Retail Crypto Trading"
178,287,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/20/uk-regulators-to-introduce-rules-for-stablecoins-in-new-markets-bill/,UK Regulators to Introduce Rules for Stablecoins in New Markets Bill,The much-anticipated financial services and markets bill to be presented to Parliament includes rules for the use of stablecoins as a means of payment.,2022-07-20,"Regulators in the U.K. are introducing rules for using stablecoins – cryptocurrencies whose prices are pegged to another asset – as payment tools to Parliament on Wednesday.
The rules are part of a long-awaited financial services and markets bill, aimed at strengthening the U.K. financial system post-Brexit, set to be presented to Parliament in the coming hours.
The government has previously said crypto will play a part in the country's broader post-Brexit strategy to increase economic competitiveness. In April, the U.K. Treasury announced a set of initiatives to help turn the country into a global crypto hub. The announcement promised new rules that would let consumers confidently use stablecoins for payments.
But a dramatic crypto market downturn, followed by the resignations of crypto-friendly finance minister Rishi Sunak and senior Treasury official Jon Glen, threatened to shake up the plans.
In May, the collapse of $18 billion stablecoin terraUSD prompted the Bank of England, the U.K.’s central bank, to publish a consultation on its plans to regulate similar crypto assets and to propose the bank be given the power to appoint administrators to oversee insolvency procedures for failed stablecoin issuers.
Earlier this month, Bank of England Deputy Governor Jon Cunliffe hinted at a delay on crypto regulations in light of the cabinet reshuffle, but promised stablecoin rules before the August summer break.
Explaining the new bill during his first speech as the newly appointed finance minister on Tuesday, Nadhim Zahawi said the framework “reinforces the U.K.’s position as a leading center for technology as we safely adopt crypto assets.”
Read more: UK Crypto Industry Hopes for More Clarity From Planned Stablecoin Rules"
179,288,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/20/stablecoin-firms-face-tough-reserve-capital-demands-in-us-bill-source-says/,"Stablecoin Firms Face Tough Reserve, Capital Demands in US Bill, Source Says",Digital tokens such as tether and Circle’s USDC that are vital to functional crypto markets would have to meet stringent new requirements in legislation that’s close to the finish line.,2022-07-20,"Companies that issue stablecoins would have to face bank-like regulations and back their tokens with conservative assets under the latest plan for U.S. legislation still being negotiated by leaders of the House Financial Services Committee, according to a person familiar with the talks.
The offices of Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and the panel’s ranking Republican, Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), have preliminarily agreed that stablecoins should be directly reinforced with assets such as cash and U.S. Treasury bonds that won’t be vulnerable in a panic, said the person, who requested anonymity because the legislation hasn’t yet been released to the public. The firms issuing them would also have to maintain capital, liquidity and open themselves to agency supervision, the person said.
The lawmakers’ effort packs heavy implications for global crypto trading, and it could leave some questions about how existing stablecoins can meet the new demands.
If the bipartisan effort clears the House of Representatives and can win enough votes in the Senate – potentially a higher hurdle – it would become the first significant legislation setting up U.S. regulations for a crucial corner of the cryptocurrency industry. It may also lend some long-awaited legal legitimacy to crypto, though it would narrow the path for how existing stablecoin firms would need to set themselves up in the U.S.
Stablecoins, which are tokens tied to the value of another asset such as the dollar, may also be able to lean on some amount of short-term repurchase agreements – highly liquid transactions in government securities – in their stringent new reserve requirements, the person said. And the new regulatory standards would also ban commercial companies issuing stablecoins, which would close a door on the tokens being issued by companies such as Meta’s (FB) Facebook, Amazon (AMZN) or Walmart (WMT).
The bill would additionally provide regulators with the power to insist on interoperability among stablecoins to guard against anti-competitive behavior.
A key worry among Republicans was that nonbank firms may not be given a chance to participate in the space they invented, but that concession was granted by letting issuers outside the banking system seek government approval to issue stablecoins. However, details on exactly how that would work haven’t yet emerged.
While today’s chief stablecoins such as Tether’s USDT and Circle Internet Financial’s USDC make up a limited slice of the $1 trillion crypto market, their trading volume can easily eclipse other tokens because they are routinely used on the other side of transactions. When people buy and sell bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) or other coins, they’re often doing it with stablecoins because they act as a relatively steady proxy for the dollar.
Tether's USDT is the dominant dollar-tied token, and the issuer has often been targeted by critics complaining about the murky picture of the reserves meant to ensure a USDT can be safely swapped for a dollar. The British Virgin Islands-registered firm behind USDT reports that some of those reserves remain in commercial paper, or short-term corporate debt that yields higher returns than government securities but also comes with higher risk. The company has been working to reduce that debt use.
While the House’s legislation is said to provide a path for nonbank financial firms to issue stablecoins, as CoinDesk previously reported, the requirements for reserves and the demands that they maintain certain capital and liquidity levels – similar to the U.S. oversight of banks – may be an adjustment challenge for companies like Tether.
Last year, the U.S. Treasury Department – alongside key financial regulators – made recommendations on policing stablecoins. Though their President’s Working Group on Financial Markets report insisted that stablecoins issuers be walled within the perimeter of U.S. banking regulations, Nellie Liang, Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic finance, told reporters this week the agency never meant that issuers needed to be banks with deposit insurance. She said it would be OK with the financial watchdogs if the firms putting out stablecoins were merely affiliates of banks or bank holding companies, so they’d still be subject to the same regulations as mainstream lenders.
It’s unclear whether the current version of the legislation, which is expected to be finished as soon as this week, will please the regulators who would have to put it into action. A Treasury spokesman declined to comment on the latest discussions about the bill. And spokespeople for Waters and McHenry didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment on the effort.
The committee is planning for a legislative markup on July 27 to deal with the bill, the person familiar with the discussions said.
In recent months, the near-instant vaporization of $18 billion in the collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lent some steam to lawmakers hoping to put up guardrails around this sector. Regulators have pinpointed stablecoins as the crypto world’s greatest threat to financial stability, asking that Congress act fast. But to clear both chambers, the legislation needs to be bipartisan and exceedingly narrow to give the parties fewer points for objections.
The potential Waters-McHenry stablecoin bill is aiming at that mark, rather than trying to set up a wide-ranging system of rules to wrangle the whole industry, as previous legislation from senators Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) is seeking to accomplish."
180,290,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/20/prosecutors-raid-7-korean-exchanges-amid-terra-probe-report/,Prosecutors Raid 7 Korean Exchanges Amid Terra Probe: Report,Seven exchanges and eight other addresses have been raided in connection to the Terraform Labs fraud investigation.,2022-07-20,"Seven cryptocurrency exchanges in South Korea have been raided by prosecutors probing a fraud case in connection with the collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and LUNA, according to Yonhap News Agency.
Bithumb, Upbit, Coinone and four other local exchanges have been raided alongside eight residential and office addresses, the report said.
TerraUSD fell dramatically off its U.S. dollar-peg in May, causing an industry-wide fallout that saw several hedge funds and exchanges fall victim to overexposure.
Investigators are now seizing material from the raids in order to ascertain whether Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon is guilty of intentionally causing the collapse of UST and LUNA.
In May, Korean police moved to freeze Terraform Labs' assets to prevent the company from embezzling funds that may be considered fraudulent.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA"
181,159,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/22/why-defi-might-be-safer-than-traditional-finance/,Why DeFi Might Be Safer Than Traditional Finance,"Transparency, overcollateralization and automation all make decentralized finance dramatically different from traditional services. That might mean there are fewer systemic risks – or just that there are entirely new risks.",2022-07-22,"There are two questions of acute relevance I want to try to answer in the wake of the latest crypto market retreat. First, is decentralized finance more trustworthy and robust than conventional financial services? And second, are some DeFi systems more stable than others?
Those questions became newly weighty as a wave of loan defaults and insolvencies in recent weeks hit centralized “lending platforms” like Celsius Network and Voyager Digital. Those entities sometimes leveraged DeFi rhetoric and, in Celsius’ case, deployed customer funds to DeFi systems with extremely mixed results. Three Arrows Capital, arguably the Typhoid Mary of this year’s crypto contagion, had major exposure to the luna (LUNA) token and terraUSD (UST) algorithmic stablecoin, a fatally flawed system based on some DeFi principles. (For a thorough description of these relationships, see my recent account of the Great Crypto Unwind.)
At the same time, more reputable DeFi systems have held up better than centralized lenders in the downturn. While their volumes and yields have declined sharply, systems like the Uniswap exchange, Aave lending system and DAI stablecoin have continued to function smoothly. Most importantly, the systems haven’t been destabilized by huge losses from loan defaults or declining asset prices, which proved fatal for the centralized lenders.
So why did centralized and human-monitored players like Celsius and Voyager prove so fragile compared to largely automated systems? And what separates DeFi systems that did fail, particularly LUNA, from those that held up?
The answers are complex, but essentially boil down to specific financial and technical design decisions. Some of these, such as systemic transparency, overcollateralized lending and automated liquidation of borrowers, are inherent to DeFi. Other features, including “tokenomics” and governance, can vary dramatically between systems – and go a long way to explaining why not all DeFi is created equal.
First, a quick refresher. In theory, DeFi systems are to trading, lending and other financial services what bitcoin (BTC) is to currency. Because they’re run on distributed blockchains, these systems are meant to be uncensorable and transparent. They are built largely around “smart contracts,” on-chain functions that can be used by anyone with an internet connection and crypto in their wallet and which automatically execute without human supervision.
Smart contract-based DeFi services include digital asset trading and lending. Some stablecoins, such as MakerDAO’s DAI, are also based on DeFi technology. A core concept for trading and lending services is “yield farming” or “liquidity mining,” which rewards users for “staking” funds to liquidity pools. Standing pools of staked assets eliminate the need to directly match buyers with sellers or lenders with borrowers.
A further declared goal of DeFi is to dispense with centralized leadership and enable users to manage the systems, though that goal has been pursued inconsistently. For a deeper exploration, see CoinDesk’s full DeFi explainer.
Arguably the defining characteristic of decentralized finance systems, the feature from which all others flow, is their almost complete transparency. Much as you can track bitcoin transactions by looking directly at blockchain records, DeFi systems allow near-complete visibility into loans and order books. This notably includes visibility into “liquidation points,” or asset prices at which the collateral for certain loans would be market-sold to cover losses. More on those in a moment.
This transparency is a sharp contrast to services like Celsius, which take depositor funds and deploy them in a wide variety of ways to generate yield. Depositors have almost no visibility into, much less oversight of, how those funds are deployed. Those deployments can include over-the-counter trades which are nearly impossible to spot on-chain, or intentional obfuscation of DeFi activities.
While that opacity can be a valid strategic choice for investment funds trying to outmaneuver competitors, it also means depositors in centralized systems are accepting a simply unknown amount of risk. The most dramatic illustration of this came with the revelation that a DeFi account known as 0Xb1 had been trading on behalf of Celsius, but did not disclose that connection – while apparently losing hundreds of millions of dollars.
“That is definitely one of the biggest issues when it comes to these [centralized lending] providers,” says Eric Chen, founder of the DeFi protocol Injective. “They say they’re going to deploy DeFi strategies for you, and they can undertake a lot more or a lot less risk than what the consumer prefers.”
An even more important bit of transparency in DeFi comes from strict policies on loan collateral. One reason Three Arrows Capital blew up is that it was taking out an array of huge loans from funds that were seemingly unaware of Three Arrows’ overall debt levels. In at least one case, a huge loan was issued with no collateral at all, apparently based purely on faith in Three Arrows.
But DeFi users face extremely conservative limits on borrowing, which help keep individual platforms stable. While Three Arrows (and traditional funds like Bill Hwang’s Archegos) can leverage their reputation to harvest loans all over town, DeFi platforms require collateral for loans, and that collateral must be effectively “locked” within the systems.
That prevents the pledging of the same collateral for multiple loans. Recycling collateral can be a form of fraud, but it’s hard to detect in traditional, centralized financial structures.
“Centralized providers, a lot of them are very credit-based,” says Chen. “And you can use the same collateral multiple times.”
The downside of DeFi collateralization standards, it should be noted, is relative inefficiency of capital. Because of that inefficiency, some question DeFi’s long-term value without something akin to a credit-rating system or other paths to undercollateralized lending. On the other hand, if DeFi’s capital inefficiency keeps leverage and risk from building up in the system, maybe that’s not such a bad thing.
Transparent, automated liquidations
Though specifics vary, most DeFi systems are set up to automatically liquidate loan collateral before the collateral falls below the value of the loan. That’s possible because collateral is locked into fully automated systems and forms a stark contrast to the frequently analog and interpersonal process by which centralized lenders issue margin calls for underwater borrowers.
The speed of liquidations is key to keeping protocols solvent. In a traditional lending context, including loans from centralized crypto exchanges to funds like Three Arrows, margin calling a large borrower can be an analog, slow, interpersonal process taking hours or days. That creates the opportunity for much larger imbalances to open up between falling collateral and outstanding loans.
And, of course, sometimes traditional loans don’t get repaid at all. Because its loans were off-chain, Three Arrows Capital was able to simply “ghost” creditors when it became clear it was insolvent. It appears Three Arrows may have on the order of $2 billion in uncovered debt outstanding, which has become an existential threat to counterparties including Voyager Digital.
By contrast, Celsius, despite also appearing insolvent, has repaid several large loans from DeFi lending protocols including AAVE, Compound and Maker. In the case of the Maker loan, a final $41 million repayment in the DAI stablecoin unlocked nearly half a billion dollars’ worth of collateral in wrapped bitcoin (wBTC).
In short, having collateral locked in a protocol seems to have a much greater disciplining effect than the legal agreements backing conventional loans. In fact, there remains some question of whether the protocols actually had legal primacy over other counterparties in the repayment stack, considering that Celsius entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection just days after those repayments.
It’s hard to think of a clearer affirmation of the old saw that possession (of your collateral) is nine-tenths of the law.
That’s one of the main reasons DeFi lending systems like Aave have weathered the crypto downturn better than centralized lenders. But transparent and automated liquidation also introduces extremely novel market dynamics, and perhaps its own set of risks.
Most notable is the visibility of borrowers’ “liquidation points.” Broadly, these are the price levels for particular assets at which a particular loan falls below required levels of collateralization. DeFi traders can identify specific price points that would trigger liquidations, and thus further major price drops.
These liquidation points are not publicly known in traditional asset markets, and their visibility in DeFi sets up fierce battles between bulls and bears when a major liquidation level is close – so-called “liquidation hunting.” While this can create volatility, it also arguably makes things fairer. Because while they’re not publicly known, various liquidation points in traditional markets are visible to entities like lenders and exchanges. That information asymmetry could easily be exploited by those centralized players.
That presents a bit of a philosophical quandary. Is it better for all players to know these liquidations points, creating a contentious but fair playing field? Or is it better that only a small number of people know, and the liquidation points don’t get widely hunted but trigger drops that are complete surprises to most in the market?
Automated liquidations do have at least two clear downsides.
First, while they protect individual platforms, they may increase broader risk for cascading liquidations of particular assets. A major liquidation of a big block of collateral risks driving down the collateral value for a tranche of other loans, which could in turn be liquidated, pushing the asset down further.
Second, and perhaps more pernicious, automated liquidation can function as a backdoor method to obfuscate asset sales. For instance, the creator of a project may use an automated liquidation to indirectly dump its token in a way that’s not transparent to users.
While some DeFi projects have weathered the downturn, others most certainly have not. Above all, that includes the Luna Foundation Guard, which administered the luna ecosystem and algorithmic “stablecoin” terraUSD that collapsed in May. The system operated transparently and on-chain, fulfilling the most basic criteria for being considered “DeFi.” But its example also highlights that DeFi can certainly be designed in unsustainable or high-risk ways.
In particular, it is troubling to the idea of decentralization that the LUNA system was using external subsidies to pay yield to users who deposited funds – even if no one was taking loans at those rates. The Anchor protocol, Luna’s answer to a lending protocol like Aave, grew incredibly rapidly because it offered up to 20% interest on deposits. But that money came from a “yield fund” that periodically had to be refilled by Luna Foundation Guard administrators with funds from venture capitalists, rather than paying out yield generated from real loans.
Those subsidized yields helped attract deposits, substantially broadening the harm when the system collapsed. But exogenous subsidies aren’t inherently against the ethos of DeFi.
“At the beginning, you can devote some capital to building a liquidity pool,” says Maya Zehavi, an angel investor focused on DeFi. “I would call that active governance. [It’s] what investors are putting in as a value add.”
Indeed, an initial round of “yield farming” offers helped protocols, including Uniswap, to bootstrap liquidity pools that have since become self-sustaining. But those offers are usually time-limited, and robust DeFi systems adjust their yield based on loan demand. The problem with Luna and Anchor was that there was no plan to sunset the inflated yield rates, or allow them to adjust to match loan demand.
“What I see as natural DeFi is when you’ve developed a system that can generate its own fees,” says Zehavi, “And regenerate and be sustainable.”
Another variable between DeFi protocols is their approach to governance. A truly decentralized system would have no key figures or leaders – but in practice, many DeFi systems are controlled by a small group of developers.
”There’s a key manager, there’s a multisig that has a lot of control over user funds,” says Eric Chen of Injective. “That almost feels custodial. Where user funds are lost, that’s usually when it’s something more centralized trying to disguise itself as being decentralized.”
Many of these effectively centralized systems justify their founders’ control as a step along the route to full decentralization. And indeed, there is no consensus about the best way to let users participate in system governance, such as decisions about yield structures.
“In the governance debate I’d take a nuanced view,” says Zehavi. “Some stuff should be governed off-chain … I think that direct democracy has proven again and again that it’s prone to manipulation.”
Experts seem to agree there’s no simple, straightforward way to separate robust DeFi structures from more fragile designs.
“There’s not really a gold standard or a yardstick for it,” says Chen. “You can tell easily by looking at code and contracts and how it’s structured, but in terms of a general user that’s pretty hard. It’s honestly just something you learn over time.”
For those who know what they’re looking for, Zehavi cites a long list of criteria for evaluating a platform. “I’m looking at how big the TVL [total value locked] is, what the [asset] concentration is, how big the pools are, where the yield is coming from, who the founders are. And I look for smart money.”
If you don’t feel confident evaluating a platform on those points, the good news is there are simpler rubrics. First, the protocols that have made it through the current crisis have probably earned some long-term trust, barring major system changes.
The second guideline is as simple as investing advice gets, and seemingly just as hard to follow: If something seems too good to be true, it probably is.
“A good general rule is, if [yield] returns are being advertised as risk-free, and they’re above the risk-free rate of the current market,” Chen warns, “It’s probably something a bit more on the concerning side.”"
182,24,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/22/to-use-or-hold-solving-the-classic-crypto-conundrum-with-a-dual-token-model/,To Use or Hold? Solving the Classic Crypto Conundrum With a Dual Token Model,"Where blockchain is concerned, two really can be better than one.",2022-07-22,"Are two tokens better than one? It’s a question that blockchain developers are increasingly wrestling with, even if the major networks aren’t likely to change their model anytime soon.
Although the traditional single-token system favored by Bitcoin and Ethereum undoubtedly has its merits – deep liquidity, simplicity – only a two-token model can solve blockchain's perennial economic conflict that stymies network growth by disincentivizing actual network use.
Let me explain.
Da Hongfei is the founder of the Neo blockchain and a developer of the international ISO-TC307 blockchain standard.
Ultimately, all blockchains share a common goal: to reliably record transactions, store economic value and engender network growth. Sure, they set about achieving these goals in various ways, and some have stronger privacy guarantees than others. But fundamentally, they pull in the same direction.
At present, the vast majority of blockchain ecosystems depend on a single token,one that reflects the value of the project and is simultaneously used as a store of value (similar to a stock), a medium of exchange (money), a mining reward and a way to pay transaction fees. Therein lies the problem.
Holders of a crypto asset – the very lifeblood of any token-based economy – support the project and want it to succeed. They amass tokens because they like the tech, trust the developers and have faith that a project (and its native asset) will succeed.
See also: Bitcoin's Biggest Question Isn't Ease of Use, It's 'Why Use it?' | Opinion (2015)
However, if they spend their tokens – on gas fees for instance – they reduce their stake in the whole enterprise. Conversely, if they refuse to part with their tokens, they neglect actually using a network.
This paradox is easy to understand but difficult to reconcile. Unlike currencies, crypto assets have the potential to markedly appreciate over time, making them attractive to long-term savers. This is a good thing from the perspective of blockchains, whose developers strive to create loyal communities that spread the good word.
The choice between actively using a protocol (and reducing their stake through paying gas fees) or holding onto tokens to hopefully profit at a later date is an economic and emotional conflict.
There is also a question of influence. In some ecosystems, spending your tokens can reduce the amount of authority and leverage you have in certain governance models. This makes users even more reluctant to “spend” their hard-won tokens on utility use-cases.
But there's an alternative.
You shouldn’t have to eat into your tokens just to transact value. It’s like buying a cup of coffee with your Starbucks (SBUX) shares, or snapping up the latest iPhone with your precious Apple (AAPL) stock. And it’s particularly painful when transaction fees skyrocket due to network congestion.
Back in February, fees for transacting on Ethereum breached previous records after rising above $20 for the first time. If you’re an Ethereum diehard, parting with $20 of ETH every time you want to make a transaction is like discarding a Lotto ticket before the draw occurs. After all, that $20 might be worth $200 in five years.
A dual-token economy fixes this. In such a scenario, one token fulfills governance duties, while another is reserved solely to pay gas. In such a system, holders of the primary token can be considered the “owners” of the network, as they are entitled to influence the project’s direction via voting. The gas token, meanwhile, is completely decoupled from the main asset. Thus the ""stake reduction through use"" problem is solved.
Dual-token systems are still in the minority, and perhaps that’s because blockchain OGs are reluctant to introduce sweeping changes to their model. We have seen several blockchains fork in the past, and the ensuing fallout is invariably ugly. Modifying a protocol’s basic rules by introducing a separate gas token isn’t a decision to take lightly.
Second- and third-generation blockchains, however, appreciate the benefits of issuing separate tokens for governance/payments and incentives/gas. And it’s not just blockchains either: Many GameFi projects, stablecoin protocols and lending/funding platforms have all bought into a two-token system, meaning their users no longer need to sacrifice liquidity or compete for scarce on-chain resources.
Projects such as Neo (my project), VeChain, Ontology, Axie Infinity and Frax all experiment with differing two-token models and, in my view, future-proofing their businesses.
That said, as with any experimental technology, protocol designs can go awry. This was demonstrated by the catastrophic implosion of the Terra blockchain, which used a native asset, LUNA, to help secure a series stablecoins, most notably the dollar-denominated UST token.
See also: 'Built to Fail'? Why TerraUSD's Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares | Opinion
Researchers noted long before its collapse that the network's design created incentives to short the stablecoin, an issue that isn't and need not be repeated in other two-token systems.
The economics of a two-token system can be, as several projects have already demonstrated, sound. There are several common characteristics to a two-token model.
Firstly, the primary token typically has a limited total supply, and is used for governance, share-of-voice or dividend distribution. It is often allocated via a public sale or grants.
In contrast, the secondary token – or utility token – has an unlimited or resilient supply. It is used for on-chain payments and gas fees, and is rewarded to participants of its ecosystem or primary token holders.
The price of a utility token rises when the growth rate of economic activity exceeds its inflation supply rate. As the yield of utility tokens rises, the demand and price for the primary token rises until the yield reaches a new equilibrium level.
In the end, utility tokens form a positive feedback to governance tokens through economic activity.
Following this model, the economic/emotional conflict that forces users to choose between actively using the protocol and investing long-term is solved. When a utility token is used for ongoing incentives and system growth, primary token holders are incentivized to take part in on-chain activities and secure the network.
With cutting-edge technology like blockchain, novel ideas need to be embraced. A two-token model is no longer an outré fantasy but a workable solution to a maddening problem. Where blockchain economies are concerned, two really can be better than one."
183,166,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/22/three-arrows-capital-founders-says-terra-gbtc-trades-led-to-fund-blowup-report/,"Three Arrows Capital Founders Say Terra, GBTC Trades Led to Fund Blowup: Report","“What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effectively zero,” Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu said.",2022-07-22,"Trades involving the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), Terra’s luna (LUNA) and terraUSD (UST) tokens eventually led to the blowup of beleaguered crypto fund Three Arrows Capital, its founders told Bloomberg.
The fund's founders Kyle Davies and Su Zhu had previously confirmed they took on some $200 million in losses related to LUNA and the now-imploded algorithmic stablecoin UST. Prices of the two tokens entered a death spiral in mid-May and fell to nearly zero in the following weeks.
“What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effective zero in a matter of days and that this would catalyze a credit squeeze across the industry that would put significant pressure on all of our illiquid positions,” Zhu explained. He added that Three Arrows Capital, popularly referred to as 3AC, had failed to flag risks related to Terra.
LUNA lost nearly all of its value over the course of a week in mid-May, while ecosystem algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) fell to a few pennies after losing its intended peg with the U.S. dollar.
3AC was one of Terra’s most vocal bulls, and was additionally one of the largest holders of GBTC, an institutional bitcoin product.
Grayscale and CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of the Digital Currency Group (DCG).
As a regulated product, GBTC allowed investors like 3AC to purchase shares directly by giving bitcoin to the trust. Holders could then sell the shares on over-the-counter markets for a premium – which netted a hefty profit for holders and became an attractive trade among investors.
GBTC shares were locked for six months, meaning falling prices led to holders taking on losses instead of profits. GBTC’s premium switched to a discount over the past year, reaching a record discount in June. This meant massive losses for investors like 3AC who piled on billions of dollars worth of exposure to the product. However, using leverage to juice up returns led to tears instead.
GBTC lost value in the past few months amid a market-wide decline. GBTC shares traded at over $34 at the start of this year, before sliding more than 50% to $12 earlier this week.
3AC continued to borrow from lenders expecting a market rebound. This was until bitcoin (BTC) fell to nearly $20,000 in late June, causing the firm’s positions to go awry and making it unable to repay any loans. The fund lost money on luna, its GBTC shares traded at a discount, and overall market declines meant all altcoin token holdings fell drastically in value.
“That was extremely painful for us,” Zhu said, referring to bitcoin’s fall. “That ended up being kind of the nail in the coffin.”
Investors are claiming that the defunct fund still owes them $2.8 billion. However, a 1,157-page court filing released on Monday shows individual claims worth over $1 billion.
Read more: Three Arrows Capital Founders Break Their Silence, Look to Move to Dubai: Report"
184,289,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/25/first-mover-asia-btc-falls-below-224k-coinbase-shares-remain-alluring-for-institutional-investors/,First Mover Asia: BTC Falls Below $22.4K; Coinbase Shares Remain Alluring for Institutional Investors,"Cathie Wood’s Ark Invest, ETF issuer Exchange Traded Concepts, Cullinan Associates and Utah-based Refined Wealth Management all significantly added COIN to their portfolios as per June 30 filings.",2022-07-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin trades sideways on Sunday but drops below $22.4K.
Insights: Crypto exchange Coinbase's shares have plunged this year, but several institutional investors have been snapping up shares.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,318 -1%
Ether (ETH): $1,560 -0.3%
Bitcoin Falls Below $22.4K; Other Cryptos Drop
Bitcoin traded sideways on Sunday to fall below $22,400, well off mid-week highs.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading around $22,300, down a percentage point over the previous 24 hours. Bitcoin had reached a more than one-month high on Wednesday, cracking $24,000, and was still trading comfortably over $23,000 early Friday before investors revisited their anxieties over inflation and the economy to back away from riskier assets.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading at $1,560, also down slightly for the same period. Other cryptos were largely in the red, with YGG and AXS both off more than 7%. The crypto Fear & Greed Index has improved over the past two weeks, but remains in fear territory, reflecting deep concerns about conditions potentially affecting crypto.
To be sure, market observers have viewed bitcoin's recent tenacity above $22,000 positively amid an unexpectedly high consumer price index (CPI) this month, slowing economic indicators and poor earnings. But crypto markets this week also struggled to make sense of Tesla's (TSLA) decision to jettison $936 million of its bitcoin holdings, the latest pivot in company founder and crypto influencer Elon Musk's ever-changing relationship with digital assets. Bitcoin has increasingly responded to the wider environment, including stock prices, which have plummeted this year.
""BTC did see some positive price action following its resilience, post the CPI data earlier this month,"" wrote Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, in an email to CoinDesk. ""The fact that news of Tesla selling its BTC holdings did not crash the price is also a positive sign for the bulls.
FOMC meeting
Investors will now be eyeing this week's interest rate decision by the U.S. central bank's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). The FOMC is widely expected to approve a 75-basis point hike, robust enough to satisfy critics of Federal Reserve timidity in tackling inflation but reasonable enough to encourage those who prefer a more moderate approach that is less likely to spur a steep recession and affect assets.
""With this month's FOMC around the corner, we will be taking a conservative approach until the Fed's future direction becomes clearer,"" DiPasquale wrote.
Crypto declines tracked major equity indexes on Friday as the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell nearly 2% and the S&P 500, which has a heavy tech component, dropped almost a percentage point. Stocks, like cryptos though, had their best week in a while after months of losses. Gold rose slightly, although it has also steadily fallen from March highs over $2,000.
In a weekly review to investors, First Republic Bank noted weakening in the once-hot housing market, a sign that rising interest rates may finally taking a bite from demand. The National Association of Home Builders index dropped for a seventh straight month. U.S. housing starts in June were also unexpectedly weak, among other falling indicators.
Three Arrows Capital
Meanwhile, the founders of insolvent crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, Su Zhu and Kyle Davies, described the firm's collapse as ""regrettable,"" but denied claims they pulled money from the fund before its collapse, according to Bloomberg report. Three Arrows' implosion stemmed from the fall Terra ecosystem that has rippled through the industry since May. Investors are claiming Three Arrows still owes them $2.8 billion.
Yet in a report, banking giant Citi said that crypto contagion fears tied to recent events, including digital asset lending platform Celsius' failing, have peaked. Staked ether’s discount to ether (ETH) has narrowed, which suggests some liquidity stress may have passed, the report said, adding that the “acute deleveraging phase” has now ended given many of the large brokers and market makers in the sector have disclosed their exposures. In a further positive sign, stablecoin outflows have been stemmed, the bank said, and outflows from crypto exchange-traded funds (ETF) have also stabilized in recent weeks.
DiPasquale wrote that ""if the Fed remains aggressive"" with rate hikes, ""we could easily see BTC return to $20,000 or lower."" But he added optimistically that ""accumulation in that range could be a promising long-term opportunity.""
S&P 500: 3,961 -0.9%
DJIA: 31,899 -0.4%
Nasdaq: 11,834 -1.8%
Gold: $1,727 +0.4
Coinbase's Enduring Allure Among Institutional Investors
Coinbase’s stock is down nearly 70% on the year, outpacing the declines of bitcoin. While many funds have used the onset of the bear market to reduce their stake in the exchange, there are also many institutional investors that have used the chance to acquire shares for what they perceive as a discount.
According to data compiled by Whale Wisdom, which tracks quarterly filings of the form 13F that discloses fund managers’ new investments, Cathie Wood’s Ark Invest, exchange-traded fund issuer Exchange Traded Concepts, Cullinan Associates and Utah-based Refined Wealth Management all significantly added COIN to their portfolios as per filings dated June 30.
Ark Invest’s Wood has been a long-time Coinbase bull, highlighting in May that the U.S.-based exchange had no exposure to either the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin or the luna (LUNA) token.
“Given its inherent profitability, competitive position and massive opportunities, we believe the company is right to focus on investing in its derivatives offerings, [non-fungible token] platform and international expansion,” Wood wrote in a note outlining her bullish thesis on the company.
2.6 million shares
Whale Wisdom data shows that all firms that filed a 13F by June 30 collectively bought 2.6 million shares.
The Wall Street Journal said that 14 analysts it polled gave Coinbase a buy option for retail investors while nine gave it a hold, and two ranked it a sell.
The average stock target price from the polled analysts is $106.05, which would give it a $23 billion market cap.
Before the company did its initial public offering last year, its pre-IPO contracts were trading as high as $317, which would give the exchange a valuation of over $75 billion. Its current market cap is just under $20 billion. Even under the most conservative appraisals, there’s room to grow.
Australia new home sales
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): Chicago Fed national activity index (June)
10:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(2:30 p.m. UTC): Dallas Fed manufacturing business index (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Three Arrows Founders Break Their Silence; SEC Calls 9 Cryptos ‘Securities’ in Insider Trading Case
""First Mover"" dove into the biggest stories of the day. CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Jodie Gunzberg shared her insights as bitcoin (BTC) topped $23,000. Plus, former prosecutor Ian McGinley joined to discuss the fallout after a former Coinbase employee was arrested over allegations of crypto insider trading.
Silvergate CEO Sees More Near-Term Pain for Crypto but Still Bullish on Bitcoin Lending: Silvergate posted strong second-quarter earnings, outperforming its crypto peers’ due to strong risk management.
FTX to Offer Early Liquidity to Customers of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager: The crypto exchange will allow the customers to create accounts funded by an early distribution of a part of their bankruptcy claims.
Bank of Central African States Urged to Introduce Common Digital Currency: Report: The regional bank is a staunch critic of the Central African Republic's decision to make bitcoin legal tender in April.
Nexo, Crypto Lender on Prowl for Ailing Rivals, Faces Declining Deposits: An analysis of crypto lender Nexo's attestations, including older data retrieved using the Wayback Machine, reveals just how much its deposits have declined in recent months.
Three Arrows Capital Founders Say Terra, GBTC Trades Led to Fund Blowup: Report: “What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effectively zero,” Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu said.
Does Crypto Still Care About Elon Musk?: Tesla’s initial BTC purchase contributed to a wild, two-year price climb. But markets were unphased after the car company offloaded most of its bitcoin.
Other voices: 1. The many lives of cryptocurrency (Axios)
""Tesla’s bitcoin sale, for all the caveats about freeing up cash, confirms what some of us knew all along: Elon Musk isn’t someone you should look to for guidance on cryptocurrency. He’s just a particularly loud, impulsive and unreliable follower."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""We need to take this action to address the mismatch between our available assets and liabilities caused by the individual who breached his contract with us. It may take some time before we can recover funds owed to us in the litigation actions we are taking against this individual."" (CoinFLEX blog)"
185,106,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/26/first-mover-americas-btc-to-15k-as-rally-stalls-some-traders-fear-another-leg-down/,"First Mover Americas: BTC to $15K? As Rally Stalls, Some Traders Fear Another Leg Down","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for July 26, 2022.",2022-07-26,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
In today’s newsletter:
Price Point: BTC is down 5% on the day and one trader predicts the world's largest cryptocurrency could hit lows of $15,000 in August due to a worsening macro environment.
Market Moves: Stablecoin tether has found stability for the first time in over two months. One trader said while tether has passed the market's stress test with a return to normalcy, concerns about its reserves will linger.
Chart of The Day: Ether's options market has turned cautious, Omkar Godbole writes.
Bitcoin (BTC) was trading down 5% on Tuesday morning as global markets dropped. U.S. stock futures slipped as investors analyzed recent earning reports and awaited results from technology companies.
Microsoft and Google's parent Alphabet will post their quarterly financial results after the U.S. market close on Tuesday. Amazon and Apple will report on Thursday. Also, the Federal Reserve is set to announce another interest rate hike on Wednesday.
Mike Schwitalla, head of trading at Crypto Finance AG, said in a note Tuesday that the Fed’s decision will be more or less a ""nonevent.""
“Due to the good forward guidance of the Fed in recent weeks, I think the market is adequately positioned, and it will be more of a nonevent,” he said.
BTC might see levels as low as $15,000 in August because of the worsening macro environment, Schwitalla said. “We can see the medium-term downtrend, which has been in place since April.”
The horizontal lines in the chart above are supports and resistances.
“The big question now is whether or not the market can break through this trendline. In case of a breakout, prices of $29,000 are possible in the short term,” Schwitalla said.
Ether (ETH), the second-largest cryptocurrency by market value, was recently down 8.8% at about $1,400. Other altcoins were trading in the red on Tuesday, with near taking the largest hit, down 11.5%.
In other news, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is reportedly probing publicly traded crypto exchange Coinbase on suspicion that Coinbase allowed trading of unregistered securities.
Meanwhile, some U.S. senators are trying to free Americans from tracking taxes every time cryptocurrencies change hands, introducing a bill that would exempt individuals from reporting any trade in which they earn less than $50.
Hong Kong-based crypto exchange OSL Digital Securities is set to distribute security tokens to professional investors in a private security token offering. The Ethereum-developed tokens distributed represented a $10,000 worth of a coupon-rate USD bond linked to the performance of bitcoin.
Also, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao has sued Bloomberg Businessweek’s publisher Modern Media on defamation claims over a translated Chinese language article title that portrayed the crypto exchange chief as running a “Ponzi scheme.""
By Omkar Godbole
Tether (USDT), a stablecoin meant to be worth a dollar, has found stability for the first time in over two months.
The world's largest stablecoin by market value regained its dollar peg on July 20 and has remained steady since then, the first such instance since the collapse of Terra's algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD or UST (now TerraClassicUSD) in the second week of May.
Terra's UST, the-then third-largest stablecoin in the world, tanked on May 12, spurring panic selling in other dollar-pegged cryptocurrencies. Tether's peg broke, and the token fell to as low as 92 cents on some exchanges following UST's crash and averaged about 99 cents in June.
Tether's market capitalization has declined by $16 billion to $65 billion in two months, a sign of large redemptions by holders. This means that the company behind USDT, Tether Ltd., honored billions of dollars' worth of redemptions following UST's meltdown. Tether Ltd. has long been criticized for the lack of transparency about the nature of assets backing the stablecoin.
In other words, tether has passed the market's stress test, withstanding redemptions in volatile conditions and eventually reclaiming the peg.
""The past two months have definitely been a stress test for stablecoins following the collapse of UST and sharp contraction in USDT's market cap,"" Clara Medalie, research director at crypto data provider Kaiko, said. ""Tether proved its ability to process billions in redemptions, despite lingering questions over the makeup of its reserves.""
It remains to be seen if tether's recent resilience bolsters investor confidence in the stablecoin, and trader and crypto analyst Alex Kruger is still skeptical about the stablecoin's resilience. Tether is heavily used in the bitcoin market and decentralized finance (DeFi).
Read the full story here: Tether Finds Stable Dollar Peg After Terra's Collapse
By Omkar Godbole
Ether's options market has turned cautious ahead of an expected Federal Reserve rate increase on Wednesday.
The put-call skews have turned positive, indicating renewed demand for puts or options offering protection against price drops.
Traders appear to be worried that macroeconomic factors may overpower the Merge optimism, yielding a fresh decline in ether.
The put-call skews fell below zero last week, indicating a bullish bias as updated deadline for the ETH Merge saw investors pile into call options.
'Cryptojacking' in Financial Sector Has Risen 269% This Year, SonicWall Says: Cyberattacks targeting the finance industry are now five times higher than attacks on retail.
Crypto Exchange OSL Will Sell Security Tokens to Professional Investors: The Ethereum-developed tokens distributed represented a $10,000 worth of a coupon-rate USD bond, which is linked to the performance of bitcoin.
Tether Finds Stable Dollar Peg After Terra's Collapse: While tether has passed the market's stress test with a return to normalcy, concerns about its reserves will linger, one trader said
Institutional Traders Have Mixed Views About Tesla’s Decision to Sell Bitcoin: “Macro and micro factors are complex, and cash on hand is welcome,” a trader interviewed by CoinDesk said.
US Senators Push Bill to Make Small Crypto Transactions Tax-Free: The top Republican on the Senate Banking Committee joined Democrat Kyrsten Sinema in legislation to exempt transactions of less than $50.
SEC Probing Coinbase for Allegedly Listing Securities, Bloomberg Reports: The investigation predates last week’s insider trading lawsuit, according to the report.
This web version of today's First Mover newsletter was produced by Sage D. Young."
186,121,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/26/tether-finds-stable-dollar-peg-after-terras-collapse/,Tether Finds Stable Dollar Peg After Terra's Collapse,"While tether has passed the market's stress test with a return to normalcy, concerns about its reserves will linger, one trader said.",2022-07-26,"Tether (USDT), a stablecoin meant to be worth a dollar, has found stability for the first time in over two months.
The world's largest stablecoin by market value regained its dollar peg on July 20 and has remained steady since then, the first such instance since the collapse of Terra's algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD or UST (now TerraClassicUSD) in the second week of May.
Terra's UST, the-then third-largest stablecoin in the world, tanked on May 12, spurring panic selling in other dollar-pegged cryptocurrencies. Tether's peg broke, and the token fell to as low as 92 cents on some exchanges following UST's crash and averaged about 99 cents in June.
Tether's market capitalization has declined by $16 billion to $65 billion in two months, a sign of large redemptions by holders. This means that the company behind USDT, Tether Ltd., honored billions of dollars' worth of redemptions following UST's meltdown. Tether Ltd. has long been criticized for the lack of transparency about the nature of assets backing the stablecoin.
In other words, tether has passed the market's stress test, withstanding redemptions in volatile conditions and eventually reclaiming the peg.
""The past two months have definitely been a stress test for stablecoins following the collapse of UST and sharp contraction in USDT's market cap,"" Clara Medalie, research director at crypto data provider Kaiko, said. ""Tether proved its ability to process billions in redemptions, despite lingering questions over the makeup of its reserves.""
It remains to be seen if tether's recent resilience bolsters investor confidence in the stablecoin, and trader and crypto analyst Alex Kruger is still skeptical about the stablecoin's resilience. Tether is heavily used in the bitcoin (BTC) market and in decentralized finance (DeFi).
""Tether has once again passed the stress test under extreme market conditions,"" Kruger said. ""However, I do not foresee tether FUD (fear, uncertainty and doubt) to diminish in any significant way until there is stablecoin issuer regulation in place and Tether adheres to it.""
Tether Ltd. has long claimed that the value of its stablecoin is always 100% backed by assets to ensure the stability of the 1:1 dollar peg. In May, Tether Ltd. published an attestation of holdings by independent accountants MHA Cayman, which showed the company held $39.2 billion in Treasurys and had $4.1 billion in bank deposits, $6.7 billion in money-market funds and $3.1 billion in secured loans. A potential loss of confidence in tether would most likely result in a severe liquidity shock to the broader crypto market, according to JPMorgan.
While tether is supposedly fully collateralized, UST is an algorithmic stablecoin backed by an endogenous token LUNA, whose value is tied to the stablecoin itself. The setup makes UST and algorithmic stablecoins vulnerable to bank runs, like the one seen in May."
187,286,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/26/imf-says-crypto-sell-off-wont-hit-broader-financial-market/,IMF Says Crypto Sell-Off Won’t Hit Broader Financial Market,"With the economic mood darkening, the Fund sees inflation and a recession as major risks – but not crypto market turbulence.",2022-07-26,"Crypto market collapses aren’t a worry for global financial stability, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said Tuesday in a report that nonetheless raised grave concerns about the global economy.
The world economy is being battered by high inflation and potentially its second recession in just over two years, the IMF said, given the impact of the Ukraine war and continued COVID lockdowns. However, markets like bitcoin, isolated from conventional banks, don’t seem to be a worry, the report says.
That relative calm comes despite recent collapses, such as the terraUSD stablecoin and Three Arrows Capital fund – turbulence that has made some regulators keen to exert greater control on the burgeoning market.
“Spillovers to the broader financial system have been limited so far,” the IMF said, citing a “dramatic sell-off that has led to large losses” for crypto investors.
In a June report, the European Systemic Risk Board said the continued rising popularity of crypto could mean wider financial market threats arise “quickly and suddenly.” The IMF itself has also called for more regulation of the sector, and has warned El Salvador to quit using bitcoin as legal tender.
Standard-setters worldwide are also working to set out exactly how banks should start getting into crypto markets. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has proposed a cap on bitcoin holdings – alongside a hefty capital requirement that would limit banks’ ability to lend based on crypto reserves.
Read more: Banks’ Bitcoin Holdings Should Be Capped, Basel Committee Proposes
In an interview published Tuesday, the European Central Bank’s Elizabeth McCaul suggested bank supervisors would in future look at individual lenders’ crypto exposures as part of regular annual reviews."
188,298,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/27/top-gop-senator-slams-sec-for-ignoring-crypto-inferno/,Top GOP Senator Slams SEC for Ignoring Crypto Turmoil,The ranking Republican on the Banking Committee accused the agency of failing to provide regulatory clarity that could have prevented Celsius' bankruptcy and other recent industry damage.,2022-07-27,"Sen. Pat Toomey, a high-ranking member of the committee that oversees the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), accused the regulator of not providing the oversight that could've prevented several crypto company collapses.
“Had the SEC responded to calls for clarity on how it would apply existing securities laws to novel digital assets and services, things could have been different,” the ranking Republican on the committee wrote Tuesday to SEC Chair Gary Gensler. “Companies could have adjusted product offerings accordingly, preventing investor losses today and the SEC would have been free to focus enforcement efforts on the worst actors.”
Toomey referenced firms that “often promised enormous, seemingly unsustainable interest rates to depositors, and at least one business allegedly engaged in risky practices.” In particular he mentioned Celsius Network, whose lending left billions of dollars of customer funds in limbo. Despite requests from the senator and other lawmakers – and crypto firms themselves – Toomey said the SEC has declined to offer sufficient clarity about what digital assets meet the definition of securities.
Gensler has said the definitions already provided by legal precedent make it clear that most digital tokens are securities, and the exchanges where they’re traded should register with his agency.
Toomey, who has been taking up the crypto cause repeatedly during his final months in office before retirement, asked several enforcement-related questions of the agency and requested details about its findings on managing the so-called Howey Test that defines securities. The letter calls for a response by Aug. 9.
In May, the senator made a different argument, that crypto firms should be allowed to collapse, which he said is a natural part of the financial system.
“It’ll probably take some failures in this space in order for the market to figure out what works,” he’d said at the time the algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) floundered.
Amanda Thompson, a spokeswoman for Toomey, said there's a distinction between oversight of stablecoins such as UST and that of firms like Celsius and Voyager Digital, where the SEC has some enforcement history and which clearly offered an expectation of profits – one of the tests to determine securities the SEC should regulate. She said it's ""unfair to imply he’s contradicting himself.""
Toomey has also previously cautioned against aggressive investor protection moves by the SEC. Last year, in defense of digital trading technologies, the lawmaker urged the agency “to proceed cautiously and avoid the temptation to pursue paternalistic regulations that restrict investor freedom under the guise of investor protection.”
UPDATE (July 27, 2022, 15:10 UTC): Adds a response from Toomey spokeswoman."
189,163,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/29/cryptos-slide-hasnt-bled-into-the-real-economy-imf-official-says/,"Crypto’s Slide Hasn't Bled Into the 'Real Economy,' IMF Official Says","Antonio Garcia Pascual, deputy chief of the global market analysis division at International Monetary Fund, joined CoinDesk TV to discuss why the crypto contagion hasn’t really spilled over into other markets.",2022-07-29,"The sell-off in the crypto market hasn’t really spilled over into the broader financial system, according to Antonio Garcia Pascual, deputy chief of the global market analysis division at the International Monetary Fund.
The crypto industry’s total market cap fell to a recent low of $873 billion from its peak of $3 trillion last November. The downturn put pressure on many crypto platforms, but largely “remained within the ecosystem” without spilling over into the “real economy,” Pascual said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” show on Friday.
“What you saw is quite a bit of a shake-up in the riskier [assets],” including certain stablecoins and tokens within decentralized finance (DeFi), Pascual said.
Still, Pascual noted that those in the U.S. and elsewhere who invested substantial amounts of money into crypto lost big on the implosion of the TerraUSD stablecoin in May.
The interview followed the release of the IMF’s “World Economic Outlook Update: Gloomy and More Uncertain” July report, which detailed how the sell-off in crypto assets “led to large losses in crypto investment vehicles” and “the failure of algorithmic stablecoins.”
Moreover, issues with liquidity hit funds and lenders that bought into Terra’s network. Crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, for example, lost over $200 million with its investment in TerraUSD. Similarly, crypto broker Celsius Network, which has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, blamed its liquidity issues to the “domino effect” stemming from Terra’s collapse.
Pascual’s view reflects comments made by Citigroup analysts in May. The bank’s analysts said the collapse of Terra would be unlikely to affect the wider financial system because the crypto industry is relatively small.
Read more: Citi Says Fallout From Terra Collapse Unlikely to Hit Wider Financial System
Still, Pascual said crypto is growing, and he thinks algorithmic stablecoins will be adopted, although he said regulators need to set a clear policy on them first.
Crypto is expanding especially fast in emerging markets that are bearing the brunt of a worsening global economy, Pascual said, especially in countries with high debt, rising inflation and volatile currencies.
Although crypto itself is volatile, public blockchains allow people to move their money into an always-on, global financial system and escape domestic turmoil, he said. Additionally, the need for cheaper cross-border payments is likely driving use.
While the world escaped crypto contagion this time around, the increasing adoption and influence of crypto could cause “global risk spillovers” the next time, Pascaul cautioned.
This risk may only be years from now, when crypto is more widely used as an alternative to domestic currencies. El Salvador and the Central African Republic have already adopted bitcoin as legal tender, for example.
Pascual said that while the adoption of a cryptocurrency as legal tender may boost financial inclusion and represent an advancement in technology, it becomes a problem when a country adopts a digital currency in the midst of “issues related to macro and financial stability.”"
190,27,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/29/ethereum-classic-almost-triples-matic-and-uni-surge-as-july-brings-relief-to-crypto-market/,"Ethereum Classic Almost Triples, MATIC and UNI Surge as July Brings Relief to Crypto Market","Ethereum classic's price rise is consistent with its record of rallying around major Ethereum upgrades, one observer said.",2022-07-29,"July has brought relief to the crypto market, with ethereum classic (ETC), the supposedly dead coin and not-so-similar clone of Ethereum's ether (ETH) token, and other out-of-favor coins like UNI and MATIC leading the recovery in digital assets with at least $1 billion market value.
ETC has added 184% this month, while scaling systemPolygon's MATIC and decentralized exchange Uniswap's UNI have gained 102% and 86% respectively, CoinDesk data show. Industry leader bitcoin (BTC) had added 20% and ether 60% at press time. The total crypto market capitalization has rebounded to $1.14 trillion from last month's $762.82 billion low.
Analysts said coin-specific factors are at play alongside the broader market risk reset.
""ETC is being driven by speculation that ETH miners will go to ETC and potentially, there could be another hard fork benefitting them,"" Lucas Outumuro, head of research at IntoTheBlock, said. The driver for the move is Ethereum's impending Merge to shift from the network's proof-of-work (PoW) blockchain to a proof-of-stake (PoS) blockchain. Ethereum's Beacon Chain has been running since 2020 as part of that process.
After the Merge, likely to happen on Sept. 19, Ethereum will start operating as a PoS chain, requiring market participants known as validators to stake, or hold, a minimum number of coins to confirm transactions in return for rewards. In a PoW system miners solve a computational problem to verify transactions.
The merge means Ethereum miners will have to find a new home, most likely Ethereum Classic, which is supposedly the only chain compatible with the Ethereum mining machinery.
""Ethereum's mining network is made up of two types of hardware: ASICs and GPUs,"" Messari's Sami Kasab said in a research report. ""The problem with ASICs is that they can't be repurposed for different applications besides mining ETH. Ethereum Classic is the only other PoW coin that can be mined with an ETH ASIC, since its hashing algorithm is compatible with ETH's algorithm.""
Recently, AntPool, the Bitmain-affiliated mining pool, invested $10 million to support the Ethereum Classic ecosystem. Ethereum Classic is a hard-forked version of Ethereum, born from a hack of The DAO, a smart contract operating on the Ethereum blockchain, in 2016.
ETC's July gain is consistent with a history of rallying around the time of major Ethereum upgrades.
""ETC's April 2021 rally coincided with Ethereum's Berlin upgrade. Similarly, ETC seems to be rallying on the back of expectations related to the Merge,"" Toronto-based crypto platform FRNT Financial said in an email, adding that investors may see ETC as a hedge against potential difficulties in the change.
ETC was priced at a 3 1/2-month high of $45 on major exchanges early today.
MATIC seems to be reaping rewards from Polygon's expansion plans and partnership announcements.
The scaling system earmarked $20 million to help projects migrating to its platform from the Terra blockchain. Disney (DIS) said earlier this month that Polygon was one of the six companies selected for a business-development accelerator program. Furthermore, Polygon said it was building a zkEVM, or zero-knowledge system, in a bid to slash transaction fees by 90% in comparison with Ethereum.
According to FRNT Financial, the zkEVM plan has added to enthusiasm in the ecosystem.
Polygon facilitates faster and cheaper transactions by running sidechains, or tangential networks, alongside the main Ethereum blockchain. Scaling refers to increasing the system's throughput, as measured by transactions per second.
MATIC neared $1 early Friday, the highest since May 9.
While UNI is not the only decentralized finance (DeFi)-associated token to rally, its outperformance may result from the Uniswap community's decision to approve a ""fee switch"" proposal that directs a portion of trading fees to the UNI holders.
Once the proposal is implemented, about 10% of trading fees could go to UNI holders, according to Ilan Solot, a partner at crypto hedge fund TagusCapital. Currently, they do not get any share in the protocol's revenue, contrary to SUSHI token and CRV token holders. The entire amount collected from the exchange's 0.3% trading cost goes to liquidity providers.
""UNI holders voted overwhelmingly in favor of the proposal; now it's a question of implementation. It looks like it would be 10% of trading fees, estimated at $20K-40K per day for the treasury. Obviously, this had a positive impact on the UNI token,"" Solot wrote in Thursday's daily market update.
UNI was changing hands at $8.90 at the time of writing, having touched a 3 1/2-month high of $9.84 on Thursday."
191,293,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/31/first-mover-asia-btc-dips-below-235k-the-crypto-bear-market-will-test-thailands-sec/,First Mover Asia: BTC Dips Below $23.5K; The Crypto Bear Market Will Test Thailand’s SEC,The country’s market regulator has said that stricter digital asset rules are coming to ensure that investors are protected.,2022-07-31,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether trade slightly lower on Sunday; other cryptos are mixed.
Insights: The crypto bear market will test Thailand's markets regulator.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $23,334 −1.4%
●Ether (ETH): $1,681 −0.9%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,130.29 +1.4%
●Gold: $1,780 per troy ounce +1.0%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.64% −0.04
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Fall in Sunday Trading
By James Rubin
After a quick spurt upwards on Saturday, bitcoin returned to a lower altitude under $24,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently at roughly $23,350, down slightly over the previous 24 hours. Bitcoin finished its second consecutive positive week, rising more than 13% from its Monday low, at one point topping $24,500 amid hopeful signs the economy was slowing enough for the U.S. central bank to soon consider scaling back interest rate hikes. For July, bitcoin rose over 23%, while ether soared more than 55% to change hands a little under $1,700.
On Wednesday, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased interest rates by a widely anticipated 75 basis points (0.75 percentage point). A day later, the U.S. Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product (GDP) declined by an unexpectedly high 0.9%.
""The FOMC [Federal Open Market Committee], some tech earnings and the GDP numbers didn't really dent market confidence last week,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of the crypto asset manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk. ""BTC had been showing positive signs in terms of price stability and bidding action below $20,000. All of those things resulted in a rally of sorts, seeing BTC trading just below $25,000.""
Most major altcoins were mixed with NMR and FIL gaining 20% and 10%, respectively, but AXS and SOL each dropping over 2%.
Crypto gains on Friday dovetailed with major equity indexes, which rose with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, jumping 1.8% and 1.4%, respectively. Both indexes rose in July with the latter gaining over 9% for the month, its largest increase since November 2020, as investors remained undaunted by disappointing earnings and warnings of slowing growth to come at a number of the world's largest brands.
Continued fallout for crypto
Crypto news included the now almost daily aftershocks from the the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin collapse and Three Arrows Capital bankruptcy. A report published by The Block, citing a restructuring proposal deck, said Hong Kong-based crypto lender Babel Finance lost $280 million in proprietary trades with customer funds. Babel Finance suspended withdrawals and redemptions, citing market volatility and hired U.S. investment banking firm Houlihan Lokey to help chalk out a restructuring plan. Babel is one of the several crypto companies, suffering from the “crypto contagion” following the Terra and Three Arrows Capital debacles.
Yet as Arcane Research noted in its most recent Friday newsletter, while the crypto lending space is in shambles, other industry developments were more favorable, including Spanish banking giant Santander's (SAN) announcement that its Brazil unit would begin offering crypto trading, and large, capital raises by several projects, including Series A rounds of $65 million by Web3 digital identity service provider Unstoppable Domains and $150 million by layer 1 blockchain Aptos Labs. The latter was led by FTX Ventures, the venture capital arm of crypto exchange FTX, and Jump Crypto.
""Significant capital raises are back as the dust has settled in the industry,"" Arcane wrote.
Still, BitBull's DiPasquale remains wary about the macroeconomic environment and its potential to head off a longer-term crypto rally. He will be watching what comes out of the FOMC's September meeting. Another hefty interest rate increase is expected.
""We are likely to see increased volatility in the coming month as speculators take their chances,"" he wrote, but added: ""We remain confident that bidding BTC under $20,000 is likely to be a decent entry in the long-term. We continue to look for signs of conclusive breakouts and would be comfortable taking entries during steep drops in the coming months.""
Crypto Bear Market Will Test Thailand’s SEC
By Sam Reynolds
Thais have a taste for crypto. At the height of last year’s bull market there were more crypto trading accounts being created in-country than stock brokerage accounts, growing at a rate of 27.6% versus 2.9% for brokerage accounts.
Part of the appeal of crypto for Thais might have stemmed from lack of other investment opportunities. Real estate is often out of reach. The stock market is rife with fraud and Ponzi schemes. Crypto, in the eyes of many, would have offered an opportunity to generate wealth that can’t be found in traditional vehicles.
But that was the bull market. Most retail traders behind these accounts would have suffered heavy losses as the market slid into bear territory. Cracks are beginning to form in some of the infrastructure; local exchange Zipmex filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this week, citing exposure to troubled crypto protocols like Babel.
Thailand’s market regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission, has been active in crypto. Last year the Thai SEC banned tokens that have “no clear objectives or substance” from licensed exchanges. DOGE was gone. It put non-fungible tokens (NFT) in the same category but appeared to ease up as local incumbent bank Kasikorn got involved in the market.
Now the Thai SEC says that stricter digital asset rules are coming. Policy is in the early stages of deliberation, but Thai SEC Secretary-General Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol told Bloomberg that stronger supervision is needed: “Our main focus will be to provide more protection for small investors, some of whom are putting most of their savings into these assets,” she said.
Checking all digital assets
Speaking to Thailand’s public broadcaster’s English channel, Anusorn Tamajai, a former member of the Bank of Thailand’s audit committee, said that “the SEC urgently needs to check every digital asset exchange to verify whether all clients’ assets are kept safe there.”
Considering that Zipmex had sudden liquidity issues, and other exchanges like Vauld also had to suspend withdrawals, trying to isolate which exchanges have been exposed to crypto contagion could stop the problem right in its tracks.
Navigating the bear market by putting problematic infrastructure offline before retail investors get burnt would allow the ecosystem, as a whole, to come back stronger.
It would also be a victory for the regulator to take a comparatively soft touch; any sort of wholesale retail ban is off the table as is pushing digital assets into securities rules. That sets Thailand apart from Hong Kong and even Singapore, which is becoming more crypto skeptical.
Unlike Hong Kong or Singapore, Thailand isn’t known for the strength of its regulated financial markets. But if regulators are able to take a firm hand in cutting out problematic exposed infrastructure from the market, all the while treating crypto with a soft touch, they might demonstrate that there’s a way to regulate digital assets and protect retail consumers without a ban.
But if regulators are able to take a firm hand in cutting out problematic exposed infrastructure from the market, all the while treating crypto with a soft touch, they might demonstrate that it’s possible to work with the industry in building a safer environment for retail traders rather than being advocates for excluding retail participation altogether.
Bitcoin Independence Day
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun Bank manufacturing PMI (July)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia TD Securities inflation (July/MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
June PCE Rises 6.8%, Bitcoin Relief Rally, IMF Official on ‘Gloomy’ Global Economic Outlook
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) suggested a global recession is likely. Joining ""First Mover"" to discuss the IMF's July report, including crypto's impact on the broader financial system, is Antonio Garcia Pascual, deputy chief of the global market analysis division at the International Monetary Fund. The Fed's favorite inflation gauge rose 6.8% from a year ago in June. Glen Goodman, eToro crypto consultant, discussed the latest economic data and provided his crypto markets analysis. Plus, SonicWall President Bill Conner has an update on cybercrime.
Ethereum Classic Almost Triples, MATIC and UNI Surge as July Brings Relief to Crypto Market: Ethereum classic's rally is consistent with its record of rallying around major Ethereum upgrades, one observer said.
Coinbase’s Stock at Crossroads as Cathie Wood’s Ark Sells Some: The trading platform may need more than just a rally in crypto prices to regain investor confidence.
Crypto’s Slide Hasn't Bled Into the 'Real Economy,' IMF Official Says: Antonio Garcia Pascual, deputy chief of the global market analysis division at International Monetary Fund, joined CoinDesk TV to discuss why the crypto contagion hasn’t really spilled over into other markets.
Crypto.com and FTX Bet Big on Stadium Naming Rights Before the Crypto Crash. What Happens if They Can’t Afford to Pay?: The glamour of a stadium naming deal can turn sour – just ask Enron. Here’s how a deal might unwind if things go bad.
KuCoin Claims Bragging Rights as First Exchange to Offer NFT ETFs: The novel suite of exchange-traded fund products is denominated in USDT and offers fractional ownership of five blue chip NFT collections.
Why NBA Athletes Are Turning to Web3 to Build Generational Wealth: NFTs and the metaverse may provide a source of income long after players hang up their high tops, says Marcus Bläsche, CEO of Rumble Kong League. This op-ed is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.
Other voices: Nearly 75% of retailers plan to accept cryptocurrency payments within the next 2 years (CNBC)
""Despite the market thrash, our long-term conviction in crypto as a technology and asset class remains strong. The quality of talent coming into crypto has never been stronger. Meanwhile, the tourist investor class has thankfully decamped. We believe the next 12–24 months will be an exceptionally fruitful time for building and investing in crypto."" (excerpt from Paradigm letter to investors) ... ""When we affect the plans around the CoinFLEX Composite distributions (inclusive of rvUSD, equity and FLEX coin), we want to be in a position, cost-wise, to make sure that we have every chance to be a successful business which begins by being a leaner business staffing-wise."" This means that we, unfortunately, had to let go of a significant number of the CoinFLEX team across all departments and geographies."" (CoinFLEX blog)"
192,297,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/01/uk-crypto-investors-should-limit-holdings-financial-regulator-says/,"UK Crypto Investors Should Limit Holdings, Financial Regulator Says",The crypto crash only hardened the Financial Conduct Authority’s determination to impose restrictions such as banning refer-a-friend bonuses.,2022-08-01,"Investment in crypto assets should be capped, with consumers warned that they could lose all their money, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority said in a policy document published Monday.
There will be a ban on offering bonuses to clients who refer friends, the financial-services regulator said as it prepares for new laws that will extend its powers to cover digital assets including cryptocurrencies.
In April, then-Finance Minister Rishi Sunak said he wanted to make the country a crypto asset hub. But the recent market crash, which saw a fall in the price of bitcoin (BTC) and the collapse of assets such as the terraUSD (UST) algorithmic stablecoin and hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, has made the regulator only more determined to act against what it sees as unduly risky behavior.
“We want people to be able to invest with confidence, understand the risks involved and get the investments that are right for them which reflect their appetite for risk,” Sarah Pritchard, the FCA’s executive director of markets, said in a statement.
“Where we see products being marketed that don’t contain the right risk warnings or are unclear, unfair or misleading, we will act,” she said, following a consultation published in January.
The FCA said that “we still consider crypto assets, when used as a speculative investment, to be high risk,” in spite of its lack of current powers to directly regulate the market.
Under the plans, potential crypto buyers must be given a “clearer and more prominent” warning that they could lose all their money and won’t be protected if something goes wrong. While the new rules in principle apply only to risky non-crypto products, the FCA is waiting for lawmakers to pass promised legislation that would extend them to innovative digital assets.
The regulator has tentatively said crypto would fall under an intermediate category of “restricted mass-market investments.” Marketing to retail investors wouldn’t be banned, but there are more limits than would apply to assets deemed safer, such as listed stocks.
Qualifying crypto assets “are only likely to be appropriate for consumers as a small part of a diversified portfolio,” and “should only be accessed when consumers understand the risks involved,” the document said, adding that exposure should be limited to 10% of net assets.
Sunak resigned in July, and is now vying with Foreign Secretary Liz Truss to succeed Boris Johnson as prime minister.
Read more: UK Financial Regulator to Limit Crypto Ads to Sophisticated, Wealthy Investors"
193,296,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/02/web3-development-remains-strong-despite-crypto-downturn-report/,Web3 Development Remains Strong Despite Crypto Downturn: Report,"Venture capital firm Telstra Ventures measured developer activity across the Ethereum, Solana and Bitcoin blockchains.",2022-08-02,"Telstra Ventures, a data-focused venture capital firm, released a new report showing that Web3-developer interest has remained strong despite the crypto bear market driven by the implosion of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, the bankruptcy filing of crypto-lender Celsius and the liquidation of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital.
Titled “Blockchain Open-Source Developers Signal Strength of Web3 Community,” the report examined developer activity on the Ethereum, Bitcoin and Solana blockchains. The data analysts looked at 1,000 active organizations contributing to more than 30,000 open source projects across the chains, collating data from a number of sources, including code repository GitHub.
“When we looked at the number of monthly active contributors to their GitHub repositories, we saw that despite pretty significant downturns in price over the last few months, [contributions] generally stayed pretty strong,” Telstra Ventures general partner Saad Siddiqui told CoinDesk in an interview. “Ethereum and Bitcoin held onto the most active contributors. Solana declined a little bit more but not nearly as much as would be indicated by the decline in price.”
The firm outlined growth in the contributor communities of each chain in terms of a four-year compound annual growth rate (CAGR), then examined the change in monthly active contributors since last year’s price peaks for the native tokens.
Ethereum’s contributor community grew at a nearly 25% CAGR, Solana’s at 173% and Bitcoin at 17%. Monthly active contributors were down 9% for Ethereum and 21% for Solana since the November 2021 price peaks for ether and SOL, respectively. Bitcoin monthly contributors increased more than 8% since bitcoin's trading high in October.
Why did Solana have the largest monthly active contributor decline?
“My sense is that, purely anecdotally, the communities for bitcoin and Ethereum have been around for a long time and they’ve seen downturns like this before,” said Jonathan Serfaty, who heads Telstra's data science group. “They’ve got the core set of developers and contributors that have stuck with it through hard times and continue to build out.""
The report didn’t break out the most popular verticals among Web3 developers, but Siddiqui noted the strength in tooling projects, which help developers build applications.
“I think, generally, we’re seeing three kinds of applications that are being built in the blockchain universe,” concurred Serfaty. “The first is reinventing the existing systems. The second one is incumbent and traditional companies utilizing blockchain for their internal use case and finding new revenue streams. And the third is blockchain applications for crypto-native folks.”
The Telstra Ventures report noted that venture and corporate investors have backed seven of the 10 most active projects across the three blockchains. Last month, Crunchbase data showed that while VC investments in crypto companies dropped 26% year over year, the number of smaller deals increased.
Along similar lines as the Telstra study, Andreessen Horowitz – which launched a record-setting $4.5 billion crypto fund in May – has a price-innovation cycle thesis that declining digital asset prices tend to usher in periods of developer innovation.
Read more: Survey: Market Downturn Hasn't Chilled Optimism About Crypto Jobs"
194,299,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/02/lending-platform-viresfinance-gets-go-ahead-to-implement-repayment-plan-amid-liquidity-crisis/,Lending Platform Vires.Finance Gets Go-Ahead for Repayment Plan,Waves governance token holders have voted to give investors a choice between moving forward with withdrawal requests or waiting until market conditions improve.,2022-08-02,"Waves, a blockchain used to create custom crypto tokens, will implement a user-approved plan to navigate the liquidity crisis on its primary lending platform, Vires.Finance.
More than three-quarters of Waves’ governance token holders voted in favor of the “DeFi Revival Plan,” which allows account holders with balances of more than $250,000 (in both USDT and USDC stablecoins) to choose whether to withdraw their money from Vires.Finance or keep their funds on the platform until market conditions improve.
The hope is for the platform to slow user withdrawals, easing liquidity pressures that have made it difficult for the lender to keep up with requests for funds to be returned.
Waves founder Sasha Ivanov says the agreement is a testament to the power of democratized finance.
“Amid the ongoing crypto winter, it is essential to remember and highlight the core values of decentralization, immutability, freedom from institutional greed and inclusivity that underpin the blockchain sector,” Ivanov said in a press release. “Unlike other platforms, Vires.Finance and Waves keep weathering this storm – largely thanks to the loyal and decisive community that always has the last word in the matter.”
The “DeFi Revival Plan” is the latest of several community-focused initiatives aimed at resuscitating Vires.Finance. The early April de-pegging of its Waves-based USDN (USD neutrino) wiped out nearly $200 million in USDN market capitalization, leading to a prolonged bank run that triggered the platform’s liquidity crisis. Although Ivanov took on about $500 million of overextended loans into his own wallet, the platform still has debt outstanding to its users.
According to the plan’s terms, users who choose to get repaid now will be able to exchange their positions for USDN with a 365-day vesting period and an additional 5% liquidation bonus. Those who opt to keep their funds on the platform will have a 0% annual percentage yield on all funds above $250,000 in USDT or USDC and will receive repayments for their loans as market conditions allow.
In a bid to prevent another liquidity crisis, Vires.Finance will also adopt a dynamic limit system that will react to the platform’s conditions.
Insolvency issues have plagued many crypto lenders and exchanges over the past several months after the crash of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and its sister token, LUNA, sent shock waves throughout the crypto ecosystem. The rattled investor confidence in the market triggered a sudden rush of withdrawals that blindsided trading platforms. Since then, major players such as Three Arrows Capital, Celsius Network and Voyager Digital have filed for bankruptcy while many more platforms have struggled to avoid a similar fate."
195,164,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/02/singapores-central-bank-to-consult-public-for-stablecoin-regulations/,Singapore's Central Bank to Consult Public on Stablecoin Regulations,"The MAS is reviewing rules to deal with the risks of stablecoins, the minister in charge of the bank said.",2022-08-02,"The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), the country's central bank, is ""actively reviewing"" its approach to regulating stablecoins, Tharman Shanmugaratnam, the minister in charge of the bank, said.
The bank is ""assessing the merits"" of a regulatory regime that targets ""the specific characteristics and risks"" of stablecoins, which are cryptocurrencies pegged to the value of other assets, typically to a major currency like the U.S. dollar, Shanmugaratnam said while answering a question during a parliamentary session on Monday.
The MAS is looking at potentially regulating reserve requirements for stablecoin issuers, Shanmugaratnam said, referencing the recent collapse of terraUSD (UST) a stablecoin that lost its U.S. dollar peg in May.
""The recent chain of high-profile failures in the cryptocurrency markets, starting from the collapse of the terraUSD and luna tokens, illustrates the high risks involved in investments in cryptocurrencies that MAS has warned the public about repeatedly,"" Shanmugaratnam said.
The central bank plans to consult the public on possible rules for stablecoins in the coming months, according to Shanmugaratnam.
Regulators around the world, including those in major economies like the European Union, the U.K. and the U.S., are working to set up regulatory frameworks for stablecoins, particularly ones that are at risk of hurting the stability of broader financial systems.
Although Shanmugaratnam said that the spillover from the crypto market crash to mainstream financial systems is limited and that banks in Singapore have ""insignificant exposures"" to crypto, MAS officials have vowed to crack down on crypto firms behaving badly in the country.
Read more: 'Singapore-based' Crypto Firms Leading Market Meltdown Were Not Regulated, Central Bank Chief Says"
196,294,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/03/want-to-strike-terror-in-crypto-markets-in-2022-just-say-youre-suspending-withdrawals/,Want to Strike Terror in Crypto Markets in 2022? Just Say You’re Suspending Withdrawals,Voyager's and Celsius’ bankruptcies were preceded by announcements that they were barring customers from getting their money.,2022-08-03,"Bank runs are nothing new. Those frightening incidents when too many customers demand their money back at the same time have destroyed many financial institutions over the years.
Traditional banks largely solved that with deposit insurance, a guarantee from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to make customers whole up to a certain amount if their bank fails.
With no such protection in crypto, the phrase “suspending withdrawals” has become a source of fear in 2022, a sign of deep trouble at firms that have tried to create a modern version of banking through digital assets. Customers who trusted the lender or exchange with their cryptocurrencies are suddenly unable to get the assets back.
One example is crypto broker Voyager Digital. Its Canadian-listed stock plunged 42% on July 4 after it said it was “temporarily suspending trading, deposits, withdrawals and loyalty rewards.” The situation got worse days later when the company filed for bankruptcy.
Voyager's troubles came as crypto prices remained hugely depressed from their peaks. And it illustrates that when a crypto firm pauses withdrawals – warning the world of serious liquidity issues – it will have trouble restarting them outside of bankruptcy court.
“The problem is, once the withdrawal suspensions happen, it’s too late for the investors,” said Paul McCaffery, co-head of equities for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
Following the collapse of the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and the implosion of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, known as 3AC, a swath of liquidity-strapped crypto lenders found that they could no longer meet customer demands.
Throughout June and early July, lenders including Celsius Network, Babel Finance, CoinFLEX, Voyager, Vauld and Zipmex halted withdrawals and transfers. Others such as CoinLoan and Finblox allowed withdrawals to continue, but at a reduced limit.
When crypto lenders go broke, the traditional financial regulatory system can’t help. The FDIC, which backstops deposits at conventional banks in the U.S., released a fact sheet on July 29 reminding the public of that.
Some lenders, such as Zipmex, have been able to recover and start releasing select tokens back to users’ wallets. The majority of lenders, however, have kept withdrawals paused, with Celsius joining Voyager in bankruptcy.
No one can predict how far the domino effect of solvency issues will run, but it’s a safe bet crypto players will shudder if any other firms warn they are suspending withdrawals.
“The announcements are decelerating but not likely quite done yet as the fallout from the 3AC solvency continues to play out,” McCaffery wrote in an email to CoinDesk. “I am hopeful that all of this bloodshed will result in better risk management processes embedded in the business models going forward.”
June 12: Celsius says that it is “pausing all withdrawals, swaps and transfers between accounts.” (Celsius filed for bankruptcy on July 13.)
June 17: Babel says that “redemptions and withdrawals from Babel Finance products will be temporarily suspended.”
June 23: CoinFLEX announces that it is “pausing all withdrawals.”
July 1: Voyager Digital says that it is “temporarily suspending trading, deposits, withdrawals and loyalty rewards.” (Voyager filed for bankruptcy on July 5.)
July 4: Vauld says that it “made the difficult decision to suspend all withdrawals, trading and deposits.”
July 20: Zipmex says that it is “pausing withdrawals until further notice.”
August 2: ZB.com announces that ""deposit and withdrawal services are now suspended"" after losing nearly five million in a suspected hack.
August 8: Hodlnaut says that it ""will be halting withdrawals, token swaps and deposits with immediate effect.""
UPDATE (August 8, 2022, 01:48 UTC): Adds withdrawal announcement from Holdnaut."
197,63,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/04/circle-invested-in-2-hacked-crypto-companies-adding-to-its-headaches-amid-stablecoin-scrutiny/,"Nomad, Slope Hacks Create New Annoyance for Their Shared Backer Circle Internet Financial","The venture-capital arm of the USDC stablecoin-issuer gave money to Nomad and Slope, which were both exploited this week.",2022-08-04,"This week’s nearly $200 million exploit of Nomad, the cross-chain bridge, and the $6 million drained from Slope Financial wallets have something in common: Both projects are backed by Circle Internet Financial’s venture-capital division.
It’s an additional headache for Circle as it aims to go public later this year. The company, which got into VC investing in late 2021, is best known for issuing a stablecoin called USD Coin (USDC). The entire stablecoin space finds itself under greater regulatory scrutiny following this year’s collapse of Terra’s terraUSD (UST).
Circle, which invests in early-stage blockchain projects and companies, participated in the $8 million Series A for Slope Finance in February and the $22.4 million seed round for Nomad in April.
“We are monitoring the current situation,” a Circle spokesperson responded when CoinDesk asked for a comment regarding the Nomad exploit. The statement was repeated when Circle was asked about Slope Finance.
Circle’s ties to Nomad and Slope didn’t cause any financial damage to the company, according to the spokesperson. The investments, however, showed how the interconnections of a growing industry can cast a shadow.
Circle’s USDC, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, is the second-largest stablecoin, with a $54 billion market capitalization, according to CoinMarketCap data. It trails only Tether’s $66 billion USDT.
Read more: What Is a Stablecoin?
After UST – another stablecoin that used a riskier method of maintaining its peg to the dollar – imploded this year, there were rumblings in Washington that more stablecoin regulation could be on the way.
Unlike UST, which was supposed to keep its one-to-one relationship with the dollar via an algorithm tied to another coin, LUNA (issued by Terra), Circle’s USDC pool of assets looks much more plain vanilla.
In a bid to increase transparency, Circle last month released an unaudited reserve report showing that USDC is backed by $42.1 billion in short-term U.S government bonds and $13.6 billion in cash, funds that could be used to stabilize the coin’s peg and ease industry-wide liquidation fears.
Read more: Circle's Cautious USDC Approach Has Paid Off, Despite Missteps"
198,162,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/08/coindesk-20s-latest-change-is-the-biggest-yet/,CoinDesk 20’s Latest Change Is the Biggest Yet,Check out what's changed with CoinDesk's core group of cryptocurrencies and digital assets.,2022-08-08,"The collapse of terraUSD (UST) and luna (LUNC) has led to the biggest shakeup of the CoinDesk 20 since its start a couple of years ago. We have also decided to make a modification that gives a better indication of what’s happening in the market. Using data supplied from our friends at Kaiko, we’ve swapped out eight assets, the most changes the list has ever seen.
First the obvious: Algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and its “balancer” coin, luna (LUNC), imploded back in May, depleting nearly $60 billion in the process. Now that have those coins become shadows of their former selves, the successor coin, also called luna (LUNA), pales in comparison.
Another change we’ve made was to take out stablecoins entirely from the CoinDesk 20. That doesn’t mean stablecoins aren’t an important part of the crypto ecosystem – far from it. Rather, it has to do with the fact that stablecoin prices – with the obvious exception of the luna fiasco – tend to stay around $1 and don't give an indication of where money is going daily within crypto. If anything, it’s more of an indicator of the general market; the higher the increase in stablecoin market cap, the more money that’s going into crypto.
Yet once turned into stablecoins, those funds then get traded into other assets. Thus, in a way, including stablecoins would be a form of double counting. Therefore, two major stablecoins, tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC), were removed from the CoinDesk 20.
Four other assets were also taken out of the CoinDesk 20 because their trading volumes over the past two quarters didn’t measure up to other coins. The tokens of layer 1 blockchains Polkadot (DOT) and Loopring (LRC) didn’t make the cut this round, nor did the tokens of metaverse darlings Gala (GALA) and Decentraland (MANA).
The removal of stablecoins and luna meant that there were four available slots for new coins. The new entrants are old names familiar to those following the CoinDesk 20.
Litecoin (LTC) made a surprising return to the list. Privacy coins monero (XMR) and zcash (ZEC) are once again in the CoinDesk 20, as are tron (TRX), EOS (EOS), bitcoin cash (BCH) and algorand (ALGO). Decentralized finance's (DeFi) kava (KAVA) rounds out the latest additions to the group of cryptocurrencies we’re following closely."
199,10,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/09/former-terra-affiliated-project-kujira-to-issue-stablecoin/,Former Terra-Affiliated Project Kujira to Issue Stablecoin,The USK token is set to maintain its price peg by combining overcollateralization of ATOM tokens with trading incentives.,2022-08-09,"Kujira, the crypto project that was building on the Terra Classic blockchain and moved to its own layer 1 protocol on Cosmos ecosystem after Terra’s implosion, is about to issue a stablecoin called USK, the firm announced Monday in a blog post.
“Inspiration” to craft USK came from decentralized lending protocol MakerDAO and its stablecoin DAI, Kujira's team said.
Kujira is a blockchain development project that was first active on the Terra network. The effort created ORCA, a liquidation tool on the Anchor lending platform. After Terra’s algorithmic stablecoin, UST, and its stabilizer token, LUNC (then called luna), fell into a death spiral wiping out billions of dollars of investor money, Kujira moved to develop on the Cosmos protocol.
“As we plan to focus on payments and commerce and launch our own high-quality Kujira wallet, we felt that we would have far more flexibility for future integrations if we were able to launch our own native stablecoin,” the announcement said. “We rebuilt Kujira from the ashes of Terra Classic’s collapse. We understand just how important it is to handle a stablecoin correctly by pursuing transparency, community involvement, sustainable governance, while focusing on adoption and tangible value.”
Many stablecoins have struggled to keep their price stable in the last months as deleveraging and insolvencies hit crypto markets and blockchain firms. Central banks around the globe have been raising interest rates to combat surging inflation, drying up liquidity and driving investors to exit riskier investments, including crypto.
Read more: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
Kujira has designed USK to maintain its price stability through a combination of overcollateralization and trading incentives. The stablecoin is set to be “soft-pegged” to the U.S. dollar, allowing the exchange rate to deviate within a range versus a hard peg to $1.
Similar to DAI, USK would be overcollateralized by crypto assets, meaning that the stablecoin issuer’s treasury will hold more digital assets in value than the market capitalization of the stablecoin. The backing asset will initially be Cosmos’ native token, ATOM, with the team planning to add KUJI – the token issued by Kujira – in the near future, according to the post.
USK tokens can be minted (created) only by locking up crypto such as ATOM as collateral and borrowing USK against them for a 5% interest and a 0.5% minting fee. The fees that USK accrues will be distributed among KUJI token stakers. The interest rate and fee could be subject to change, according to the blog post.
The post emphasized that Kujira intends USK to be resistant to censorship. It explained that a key difference from DAI stablecoin is that USK doesn’t plan to hold Circle’s stablecoin USDC in its treasury to “avoid being easily censorable.” This line likely reflects news on Monday of the U.S. Treasury banning privacy-focused crypto-mixing service Tornado Cash, with Circle subsequently moving quickly to freeze the blacklisted addresses that interacted with the service.
USK will start its test mode on Friday, followed by two weeks of feedback before going live.
KUJI has rallied in the wake of the announcement. It is up 30% in the last 24 hours and trading higher than before the implosion of Terra in May. Cosmos’ ATOM is down 3.7% on the day in tandem with a general slump in the cryptocurrency market.
UPDATE (Aug. 11, 2022 06:55 UTC): Clarifies Kujira's move from Terra Classic in the first graf."
200,295,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/11/ban-banks-from-holding-crypto-un-development-body-says/,"Ban Banks From Holding Crypto, UN Development Body Says",UNCTAD recommends extra taxes on transactions and ad restrictions to boost states' revenue and safeguard financial stability in developing countries.,2022-08-11,"Developing countries should introduce widespread restrictions on crypto usage given the risks to tax collection, monetary policy and financial stability, and ban banks from holding crypto, the United Nations’ development arm said in three reports published Thursday.
The UN Conference on Trade and Development, UNCTAD, warns that the rising use of crypto for domestic payments, and by migrant workers sending funds back home, challenges states' authority in monetary matters, and may cause “leakage” of development funds.
The agency advised imposing higher taxes on crypto transactions, requiring exchanges and wallets to register with regulators, and curbing or forbidding crypto ads.
“The benefits that cryptocurrencies may bring to some individuals and financial institutions are overshadowed by the risks and costs they entail, particularly in developing countries,” UNCTAD said, citing risks such as tax evasion and losses from price swings that might need to be bailed out by central banks.
The document advises countries to “ban regulated financial institutions from holding stablecoins and cryptocurrencies or offering related products to clients.”
Stablecoins are cryptocurrencies that seek to maintain their value with respect to an established fiat currency such as the U.S. dollar – but they don’t always succeed, as the recent collapse of terraUSD showed.
Figures cited by UNCTAD show crypto is particularly popular in Russia, Ukraine and Venezuela, three countries affected by sanctions, war and hyperinflation. As of November 2021, 41 developing countries had either prohibited banks from dealing in crypto or prevented exchanges from offering crypto to retail investors, and nine have banned crypto outright, the report said.
Standard-setters are reviewing how conventional banks should interact with the world of crypto, and are leaning toward imposing a cap on holdings of assets such as bitcoin. Other international organizations have proposed extra curbs intended to shore up money-laundering rules, capital controls and tax collection."
201,34,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/16/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-and-ether-fall-angry-that-hodlnaut-has-frozen-your-funds-too-bad-its-in-the-terms-and-conditions/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin and Ether Fall; Angry That Hodlnaut Has Frozen Your Funds? Too Bad, It’s in the Terms and Conditions","The Singapore-based crypto savings platform angered users with its decision, but the law may be on the company's side if a complaint ever makes it to court.",2022-08-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin falls below $24K before recovering slightly; ether is down.
Insights: Crypto savings platform Hodlnaut angered users by freezing withdrawals, but the law may be on the company's side if there's ever a court case.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $24,141 −1.0%
●Ether (ETH): $1,898 −2.7%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,297.14 +0.4%
●Gold: $1,794 per troy ounce −0.3%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.79% −0.06
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Falls Below $24K Before Recovering Slightly; Ether Drops
By James Rubin
Bitcoin seemed headed for a bright start to the week, topping $25,000 late Sunday (U.S. time) after flirting with the psychologically important threshold multiple times in previous days.
But the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization quickly retreated and was recently trading just over $24,000, down almost a percentage point over the last 24 hours, albeit still above the top part of the $20,000 to $24,000 range it's occupied for over a month. Investors remain in wait-and-see mode following weeks of sometimes hopeful and other times confounding economic indicators and company earnings.
""It seems the cryptocurrency, like many other instruments, is testing a potentially significant barrier following the recent recovery and we may be seeing some profit-taking,"" Craig Erlam, senior market analyst, U.K. and EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) for foreign exchange Oanda, wrote in an email. ""Whether that becomes a full rotation lower isn't clear yet but it doesn't appear to have the momentum for a breakout at this time.
Ether followed a similar pattern, rising to over $2,000 late Sunday before falling below $1,900. The second-largest crypto by market cap was recently down roughly 2.5% from the previous day, although well above levels earlier this summer amid growing investor enthusiasm for The Merge, which will change the Ethereum protocol from proof-of-work to the faster, more energy efficient proof-of-stake model. Two of Sunday's big winners, the popular meme coins SHIB and DOGE, were losers a day later, recently plunging more than 9% and 7%, respectively. MATIC tumbled more than 5%.
Equities trade sideways
Stocks fared somewhat better than major cryptos, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 increasing 0.6% and 0.4%, respectively, amid ongoing hope that inflation has peaked and the U.S. Federal Reserve may be able to back off some of its current monetary hawkishness. But commodity prices declined after a number of indicators showed slowing growth in China. The price of Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of the energy market, dropped over 3% to about $95 per barrel.
""The economic data from China overnight was very disappointing, to put it mildly,"" Erlam wrote. ""Combined with the lending figures on Friday, it does not paint a good picture of domestic demand or the growth outlook.""
Crypto news
A scotched deal between cryptocurrency custody company BitGo and crypto-focused financial services firm Galaxy Digital highlighted Monday's industry news. Earlier in the day, Galaxy Digital, the creation of noted investor Michael Novogratz, said it was abandoning its plan to purchase BitGo because the latter had failed to provide financial statements by an end-of-July deadline. The companies had first announced the deal in May 2021 for what was at the time about $1.2 billion in stock and cash.
Later Monday, BitGo said it was planning to sue Galaxy Digital for backing out of the merger agreement, and will seek $100 million in damages from Galaxy, the amount of a previously promised break-up fee.
The Federal Reserve announced it was publishing its final guidance for novel financial institutions to access its ""master accounts,"" something these firms need to participate in the global payment system. The announcement would seemingly move the U.S. central bank one step closer to possibly allowing Wyoming trust companies, like Custodia and Kraken Bank, access to these accounts.
European digital bank Revolut has been granted authorization by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission, allowing it to offer crypto services across the European Economic Area. The authorization will enable Revolut to offer crypto services to its 17 million customers.
And Singapore's High Court granted beleaguered crypto exchange Zipmex more than three months of creditor protection so that Zipmex can devise a funding plan, Bloomberg News reported.
Decoupling from macro events?
Arca Chief Investment Officer Jeff Dorman optimistically noted evidence of a decoupling between crypto prices and macroeconomic events. ""The coincidental timing of idiosyncratic digital asset events (LUNA/UST, defaults/bankruptcies, ETH 2.0 Merge) and macro events (peak inflation, commodities rolling over, bad economic data leading to 'bad news = good news') makes it difficult to prove the decoupling,"" Dorman wrote in a Monday newsletter. ""But if you look elsewhere in digital assets, there has been massive dispersion in digital asset prices since mid-June.""
He added: ""All the market leaders that released big news/partnerships/tokenomics changes ultimately rallied the most (UNI, DYDX, LDO, ETH, CRV, AAVE, MATIC, CHZ, etc.). This is a very encouraging sign that digital assets are once again trading on their own information flows rather than being 100% tied to macro events.""
Angry That Hodlnaut Has Frozen Your Funds? Too Bad, It’s in the Terms and Conditions
Earlier this month, Singapore-based crypto savings platform Hodlnaut froze withdrawals and token swaps citing “difficult market conditions.”
Naturally, its user base was aghast and the legal threats came in fast and furious over Twitter. At the time, Holdnaut was applying for a license from the Monetary Authority of Singapore (it has since withdrawn the application), and surely this isn’t the type of behavior becoming of a licensed institution.
Except this is all laid out in the terms and conditions, and Singapore courts may favor upholding this contractual agreement.
“The standard terms and conditions of the crypto lenders will usually provide it with a broad and absolute discretion to suspend all, or any part, of its services to its customers,” Yuankai Lin, partner at RPC Premier Law Singapore told CoinDesk via email. “In Hodlnaut's case, it did have a contractual right under its standard Terms and Conditions to ‘suspend or terminate the Service or any part of the Service, at its discretion and without prior notice to the User.’”
Lin said that, like any other digital service, the user would need to indicate their acceptance to open an account and this agreement would be binding on them.
As for any legal challenge, this might not go anywhere. Lin said this has been tried before in the TradFi world, and the courts have ruled on the side of the institution.
“The Singapore courts will generally recognize and uphold contractual terms giving the bank absolute discretion in relation to certain acts, provided that the bank exercises this discretion in good faith and not arbitrarily or irrationally. Any party seeking to challenge the bank's act will essentially have to prove the bank had abused its discretion,” he said to CoinDesk.
Lin said that while there have not been any reported decisions in Singapore on crypto lenders specifically exercising their discretion to freeze funds, he expects the same framework of discretion from TradFi to be applied.
As of now, MAS has been focused on regulating crypto from an anti-money laundering and combating terror financing perspective.
“MAS has stated that it will look towards widening the scope of cryptocurrency regulations in Singapore to cover more areas such as consumer protection, market conduct, and reserve backing for stablecoins,” Lin told CoinDesk.
Without a license from MAS, Holdnaut won’t be able to offer token swap services. It can however still offer lending and borrowing services for cryptocurrency-related transactions, Lin explained, as it is not an activity currently regulated by the MAS.
Holdnaut has not applied for bankruptcy protection unlike other CeFi lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital. The company has previously announced that it has ""no exposure or loans"" with Three Arrows Capital or Celsius.
Per previous CoinDesk reporting the lender is working with Singapore-based law firm Damodara Ong on a timeline for a plan to preserve user assets.
Hodlnaut has said on Twitter that it plans to provide another update to users on August 19.
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia monetary policy minutes
12:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(4:30 a.m. UTC): Japan tertiary industry index (MoM/June)
5 p.m. HKT/SGT(9 a.m. UTC): Eurostat trade balance n.s.a. (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin (BTC) briefly tops $25,000 for the first time since June. Brent Xu, Umee Founder and CEO, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss. Plus, Monero’s privacy-focused crypto protocol upgrade is now live. And Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon broke his silence about Terra's collapse.
Crypto Lender Celsius On Pace to Run Out of Cash by October: The firm, which filed for bankruptcy protection in July, is also short of $2.8 billion in crypto assets, the court filing reveals.
Acala’s Stablecoin Falls 99 Percent After Hackers Issue 1.3 Billion Tokens: A bug in the protocol’s newly-deployed iBTC-aUSD liquidity pool left the door wide open for hackers to exploit.
Netherlands Arrests Suspected Developer of Sanctioned Crypto-Mixing Service Tornado Cash: The country's Fiscal Information and Investigation Service hasn't ruled out making more arrests.
JPMorgan: Ethereum Miners Face an Abrupt Change Following the Merge: Ethereum Classic miners are likely to be among the main beneficiaries of the shift to proof-of-stake validation, the bank said.
An Alleged Tornado Cash Developer Was Arrested. Are You Next?: If you’re developing a crypto mixer, it’s best to do it anonymously.
Other voices: Crypto Evangelist Mark Cuban Is in Trouble (TheStreet)
""Blockchain founders need to return to the space’s roots of decentralization, while using “DeFi” as a guiding ethos to introduce smart contracts and new incentive structures into legacy industries."" (Unchained founder Matt Waters/CoinDesk)"
202,19,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/08/17/dont-say-terra-and-other-reflections-from-koreas-crypto-extravaganza/,'Don't Say Terra' and Other Reflections From Korea's Crypto Extravaganza,"A string of conferences in Seoul explored the future of DeFi, but the $40 billion blowup of a major Korean project was not on the agenda.",2022-08-17,"“Don’t say Terra.” Sometimes explicit, sometimes not – the message was clear.
Earlier this month, the who’s who of South Korea’s crypto scene descended upon hotel ballrooms in Seoul’s ritzy Gangnam district. They were there to attend a string of conferences meant to showcase Asia’s budding crypto ecosystem.
Terra, which was founded in South Korea, was one of the most talked about projects in the crypto-verse until it crashed last spring. It was, in many ways, the match that burnt down the entire crypto market – setting off a ripple effect that brought everything, including bitcoin and ether, down to the lowest prices they had seen in over a year.
The largest event in Seoul this month, Korea Blockchain Week (KBW), counted many of Terra’s original builders, investors and partners among its 7,000 attendees. KBW could have been an ideal forum to discuss the ills and excesses that culminated in the project's unprecedented rise and fall.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
Instead, any reflection on Terra – whose controversial tactics continue to run rampant throughout decentralized finance (DeFi) – was conspicuously missing from the KBW agenda. In place of Terra-centered soul-searching were humdrum discussions around GameFi, NFTs (non-fungible tokens) and the future of DeFi. The one-time Korean DeFi darling – ever the elephant in the room – was taboo.
Altogether, the events in Seoul left the impression of an image-conscious industry reluctant to learn from its mistakes or wade into controversy.
The Terra fiasco, wherein a $40 billion dollar ecosystem collapsed to nearly nothing, continues to cast a shadow over the South Korean crypto scene which birthed and incubated it.
At the core of Terra was UST – a decentralized stablecoin that sought to maintain its $1 peg through clever programming rather than through direct 1:1 backing. The vision was ambitious. And it worked well until it didn’t.
The company that launched Terra, Terraform Labs, sold its vision of a decentralized dollar to legions of retail investors – many of whom lost big when UST (and its sister token, Luna) fell precipitously to zero in May.
For months before the crash, onlookers warned that UST’s stabilizing mechanism, which was supposed to expand and contract the supply of luna to keep UST at $1, was destined to fail just like virtually all similar experiments preceding it.
Suffice to say, the project was risky. And yet, Terra founder Do Kwon and many of his investors were adamant that UST was a safe investment.
Terra played a major role in growing South Korea’s nascent crypto scene. Many of the builders and retail investors who I spoke to in Korea cited Terra – sometimes with an embarrassed chuckle – as their first door into the sector. And I received pitch after pitch from projects that were forced to move to X or Y blockchain after originally building on the ill-fated “Terra Classic” blockchain.
Several of the most prominent companies and investors behind the events in Seoul – like KBW co-hosts Hashed and Klaytn – were major Terra partners.
Hashed, a Seoul-based investment firm with a cut-throat reputation in Korea’s crypto scene, suffered from the Terra fiasco just like everyone else did. One of Terra’s largest investors, the firm reportedly lost $3.5 billion from the project’s implosion.
Read more: Hashed Wallet Takes $3.5B Hit, Delphi Digital Discloses Loss After Terra's LUNA Collapse
But Terra skeptics have long maintained that Hashed bears some blame for propping up the project’s fragile ecosystem.
Terra’s underlying mechanism was criticized right from the start, but Terraform Labs and its brash founder didn’t want you to believe the haters. They bred a cult-like community that ostracized critics for circulating “FUD,” or “fear, uncertainty and doubt.”
Responding to one critic in July 2021, for example, Kwon tweeted, “I don’t debate the poors.” His response was cheered on by some of Terra’s loyal fans, self-dubbed “lunatics.”
Outside of its propaganda machine, Terraform Labs lured buyers into the Terra ecosystem through generous incentive programs subsidized, in part, by investor money. If the money behind those incentives were to dry up, critics feared that demand for Terra’s UST and Luna tokens would drop enough to break the mechanism that keeps UST “pegged” to one dollar. (In reality, the UST mechanism fell apart long before Terraform Labs ran out of reward runway.)
According to a recent Korean media report, Hashed joined in on the promotion frenzy: Top brass from the firm attacked critics who called out Terra’s mechanics, and the fund issued biased forecasting reports depicting the project in a favorable light.
Hashed’s investments in Terraform Labs also, of course, played a key role in helping the Terra ship set sail.
Has Hashed learned any lessons from investing in a project that reportedly wiped billions of dollars from its balance sheets? Don’t ask Hashed.
At KBW, Hashed refused to speak to CoinDesk about Terra – its best-known investment. The venture firm, which is the largest blockchain-focused fund in South Korea, indicated through its PR reps that it preferred to speak about its newer bets – a preference also reflected in the conference’s Terra-free programming.
Terra had a massive presence in South Korea’s crypto scene before its collapse, but any reference to the failed project was scrubbed from Korea Blockchain Week and the conferences surrounding it.
During Buidl Asia, one of the conferences that preceded KBW, I was at a lunch with a some of the event’s speakers, including Vitalik Buterin, Ethereum’s co-founder. I mentioned that organizers warned me not to say the word “Terra” during a panel I moderated on stablecoins. (We said it anyway.)
Buterin remarked that he, too, had been advised not to mention Korea’s crypto boogeyman. Buterin is a Jesus-like figure in crypto-land, with his tweets and blog posts heralded as scripture in the Ethereum community.
He couldn’t say “Terra” either?
How a risky bet like Terra grew into a DeFi behemoth despite its glaring flaws remains a subject of inquiry among crypto skeptics and adherents alike.
But rather than ask hard questions around how to prevent the next $40 billion blowup, speakers in Seoul – many of whom, like Hashed, were deeply involved in the project – seemed to act as if the largest crypto crash in history had never occurred.
One of the KBW panels best-suited to address the Terra question could have been the one entitled “Next Generation of Finance on Blockchain.” But as an expert on how DeFi could grow sustainably, KBW chose a curious spokesman: Dylan Macalinao, a co-founder of the blockchain company Saber.
Just a few days earlier, Macalinao and his brother, Ian, were exposed by CoinDesk for using around a dozen pseudonyms to artificially inflate the size of Solana’s decentralized-finance ecosystem. The Saber exposé was still the talk of crypto Twitter by the time of Macalinao’s panel, but, as CoinDesk’s Sam Reynolds observed, the panel didn't make a single reference to the Macalinaos’ exploits – which included promoting projects without disclosing that they were secretly their own.
By completely avoiding the Saber controversy (let alone Terra), the panel – like the rest of the conference – felt more like an advertisement than a source of insight. It also left one with the impression that the crypto community continues to worship the wrong idols.
Talk of Terra wasn’t on the official agenda in Korea, but it spilled out into hallways, cocktail hours and afterparties.
Everyone seemed to have some link to the project.
I spoke to Terraform Labs employees-turned-critics about how they had been temporarily banned from leaving the country by Korean prosecutors.
I met with an executive at the South Korean gaming company Com2Us, who explained that the company built out entire in-game economies on Terra before UST and Luna crashed, forcing the company to build out its own chain.
I also bumped into an employee from Chai, the Do Kwon-founded payment platform that was initially supposed to provide a use case for the UST stablecoin. Chai eventually spun away from Terra, and the employee I met said the company had pivoted focus to blockchain-based gaming.
The official panels at Korea Blockchain Week might have avoided criticizing Terra, but in one-on-one conversations, the knives were out.
Comments ranged from speculation around the psychological profile of Do Kwon to conspiracy theories around whether the Terra crash was an inside job.
Read more: ‘Down Infinite’: A Ham-Fisted Attempt to Rehabilitate Do Kwon’s Image
The sense of betrayal was palpable. And yet, all of these people showed up to a conference planned by Terra’s partners – seemingly unfazed by the conference’s rosy depiction of the broader crypto industry.
If anything was clear in South Korea, it was that crypto has a short-term memory problem.
Just as Terra’s largest investors seem to have forgotten the role that they played in history’s biggest crypto crash, Terra’s born-again critics are all too willing to brush over the fact that they, in many cases, also bought into the Terra myth – only to turn around later and say it was clearly a house of cards.
Perhaps it is unrealistic to expect Terra’s big money backers to publicly examine their role in promoting the project, particularly while it is under investigation. Nevertheless, the wider crypto community – especially the more informed builders and investors who bought into Terra while aware of its flaws – should cultivate spaces for dialogue that are willing to explore projects through a more critical lens."
203,300,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/17/first-mover-asia-crypto-cant-shake-the-correlation-narrative-btc-eth-sink-but-meme-coins-rise/,"First Mover Asia: Crypto Can’t Shake the Correlation Narrative; BTC, ETH Sink but Meme Coins Rise",The CEO of options trading platform Tastyworks sees cryptos rebounding only when equities are also rallying.,2022-08-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether fall slightly, but meme coins continue to rise.
Insights: Crypto is struggling with a stocks correlation narrative.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $23,870 −1.3%
●Ether (ETH): $1,877 −2.0%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,305.20 +0.2%
●Gold: $1,790 per troy ounce +0.5%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.82% +0.03
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Fall, but Meme Coins Are Rallying
By James Rubin
Most major cryptos were on the defensive for a second consecutive day, with bitcoin and ether both trading slightly lower from respective two-plus-month highs they reached less than 48 hours ago.
BTC was recently changing hands below $24,000 after cracking $25,000 on Sunday and down roughly a percentage point over the past 24 hours. Ether was trading under $1,900 less than two days after breaching $2,000 for the first time since late May, as investors large and small paused from more recent risk-embracing postures.
""The recent crypto rebound has hit a wall as retail traders continue to lick their wounds and institutions respect key technical levels,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange Oanda, wrote in an email. ""Bitcoin can’t yet break above the $25,000 level, but it seems to be maintaining a bullish trajectory here.""
Over the past seven days, ETH has outperformed BTC amid growing anticipation of the Merge, which will shift the Ethereum protocol from proof-of-work to a faster, more energy efficient proof-of-stake protocol. ETH’s total market capitalization is now 50% of BTC’s, approaching levels last seen in January. ETH’s market cap compared to BTC’s indicates the potential for a “flippening” event, where ETH’s total market cap exceeds BTC’s. In a report, FSInsight suggested that ether could approach bitcoin’s market cap over the next 12 months.
""The upcoming merge has led to elevated trading activity for ETH, especially in the options market, where the open interest surpassed BTC’s for the first time in history,"" Arcane Research noted in a newsletter.
Other cryptos were mixed, with popular meme coins DOGE and SHIB continuing their recent surge and rising more than 13% and 3%, respectively. But MANA, YGG and SAND all recently fell more than 2.5%.
Futures tracking DOGE and SHIB recently had over $25 million in liquidations, data showed, suggesting part of the rally in them has stemmed from futures bets. But the two cryptos' gains have also been confounding.
Equities
Stocks were mixed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was slightly in the green after big box retailers Walmart (WMT) and Home Depot (HD) posted unexpectedly strong second-quarter earnings but the tech-focused Nasdaq down declined a fraction of a percentage point. The tech sector, which has largely correlated with crypto pricing, has been weathering disappointing results from major chip manufacturers.
Still, a 17-month low in housing starts offered investors the latest hopeful sign that the the U.S. economy was decelerating sufficiently for the Federal Reserve to scale back interest rate hikes at some point over the next six months. A decline in the July Consumer Price Index (CPI) last week suggested that the bank's recent monetary hawkishness was slowing inflation. Travis Kling, founder and chief investment officer for Ikigai Asset Management, told ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV that these signs could ""bode well for asset prices broadly and for crypto as well.""
Crypto news
The fallout from the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin collapse and wide-spreading price declines has slowed this month but is far from over. In an announcement on its website, cryptocurrency lending platform Hodlnaut said it had filed an application with the Singapore High Court to be put under judicial management, which is a form of protection from creditors. The application was filed on Aug. 13, five days after the company froze withdrawals, and will temporarily safeguard the lender from any legal claims.
Hodlnaut is the latest in a long line of crypto companies that have been stung by the recent market downturn, Singapore-based exchange Zipmex received creditor protection on Monday, while trading firm Three Arrows Capital owes billions of dollars to creditors after imploding in June due to leverage.
Later Tuesday, Stronghold Digital Mining (SDIG) said it was negotiating with its lenders over a possible debt restructuring or refinancing agreement that would keep the bitcoin miner afloat. Publicly traded miners have suffered in the bitcoin bear market, with their shares falling more than 60% on average this year, worse than bitcoin itself, which has lost less than half of its value. Stronghold's share price has tumbled about 70%.
Also Tuesday, Acala’s native stablecoin, aUSD, came close to regaining its peg to the U.S. dollar. The Polkadot-based decentralized finance (DeFi) platform burned over 1.2 billion aUSD tokens that were minted by exploiters over the weekend who took advantage of a bug in one of the platform’s liquidity pools.
Oanda's Moya struck an upbeat note despite bitcoin's recent retreat, highlighting institutional interest in digital assets. ""Pretty much everyone on Wall Street thought that the mid-June lows would get retested for bitcoin, but now it seems this dead cat bounce doesn’t want to stop,"" he said. ""It appears the institutional money is mostly behind this recent rebound, which suggests it could have a better chance of lasting.""
Crypto's Struggle With Correlation
By Sam Reynolds
Long ago, crypto was thought of as an asset to use in time of risk. When Cypriot authorities forced the country’s people to take a haircut on deposits in 2013, they turned to bitcoin to preserve wealth.
Now, things are different. Crypto is a different kind of asset. A risk asset like tech stocks. Not the safe haven it once was.
Nobody knows when this will end, or even if it will return to where it once was.
In an email to CoinDesk, Scott Sheridan, CEO of options trading platform Tastyworks, pointed to the bull market’s major equity valuations as a magnet for more capital, which in turn drives up prices. Sheridan, for his part, rejects the idea that crypto can be considered a safe haven given its volatility.
“Crypto, on the other hand, doesn’t have the same valuation metrics. It’s still in its infancy and so are its valuation models,” he said to CoinDesk via email. “That ambiguity, with respect to valuations, is what allowed for investors to justify chasing prices higher. If I’m right on that, then I would expect the volatility in crypto to outlast the volatility in equities, something you don’t want if you’re seeking a safe haven.”
Crypto and stocks will rebound together
Sheridan thinks crypto won’t turn around until equities do and market volatility subsides.
“Once we get back to a VIX [an index measuring volatility] near its mean of 18, then I think you’ll see equity prices stabilize and at that point, you might see crypto stabilize or begin moving higher. Until then, I think the combination of potential alpha in equity markets and the evolving state and subsequent turbulence in crypto are more geared toward speculation than they are sheltered from the storm,” he continued.
***
Speaking at this year’s Consensus festival, Galaxy Digital CEO Mike Novogratz predicted it will be in October when the U.S. Federal Reserve flinches first on raising interest rates. But that all depends on how inflation goes and how economies worldwide respond. With the People’s Bank of China taking a seemingly different approach than the Fed – lowering rates while the Fed raises them – it could be a while before things stabilize.
U.S. FOMC minutes released
11 p.m. HKT/SGT(3 p.m. UTC): U.S. FOMC minutes released
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): U.K. core consumer price index (July)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Former CFTC Commissioner Dawn Stump on Crypto Regulation; Celsius On Pace to Run Out of Cash by October
""First Mover"" spoke with former CFTC Commissioner Dawn Stump on the future of crypto regulation and her new role at crypto risk monitoring firm Solidus Labs. Plus, a closer look at Celsius Network as a new court filing revealed the crypto lender holds $2.8 billion less in crypto than it owes to depositors.
Crypto Twitter Sees 'Bearish Wedge' Pattern in Bitcoin's Price Recovery: The rising wedge – a pattern that has appeared in bitcoin's price charts – has some analysts and traders calling for a renewed sell-off toward $16,400.
Jump Crypto Picked to Revamp Solana to Make Blockchain More Reliable: The crypto trading firm and builder is reupping its commitment after the once-hot blockchain hit potholes.
Acala Stablecoins Near $1 Peg After Community Burns 1.2B aUSD Minted by Exploiters: Developers said trace reports were underway to identify the transactions performed by the 16 wallet addresses connected to the exploit.
US Fed Opens Pathway for Crypto Banks to Tap Central Banking System: The central bank will create a three-tiered system for evaluating whether a financial institution should have access.
SEC Files Complaint Against Dragonchain for Unregistered Initial Coin Offering: The complaint alleges the blockchain startup failed to register more than $16 million in crypto asset securities.
Stop Attacking DeFi Founders for Complying With the Tornado Cash Sanction: Crypto projects are being criticized for censoring use of their websites.
Other voices: Voyager customer lost $1 million saved over 24 years and is one of many now desperate to recoup funds (CNBC)
""Dog coins vs $BTC over the last 30-days"" (@cryptowat_ch) ... ""The series seems designed to resuscitate Kwon’s sullied image. In a 30-minute interview, filmed over two days, Yahoo Finance alum Zack Guzman asks Kwon questions including, “Are you an Elizabeth Holmes,” did lawyers counsel him against speaking to the press, and is it “fair” to say UST was valueless from the start."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn)"
204,306,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/17/uk-crypto-industry-welcomes-new-stablecoin-rules-awaits-guidance/,"UK Crypto Industry Welcomes New Stablecoin Rules, Awaits Guidance",Subtitle not found,2022-08-17,"Crypto advocates in the U.K. have largely welcomed a new bill that could bring digital assets like stablecoins into the scope of local payments regulation. But there’s uncertainty about how the new rules will look like, should the bill pass.
The bill is scheduled to be debated in Parliament for the first time in September. It will move through a complex legislative process that could be slowed further by the recent cabinet shuffle, and crypto advocates are awaiting indications from regulators on how they plan to interpret and enforce the rules.
“We will have to wait to see what new rules are introduced as a consequence of the bill to fully understand the new powers and approaches of the various regulators,” James Alleyne, legal counsel at the London-based law firm Kingsley Napley, who advises crypto firms on compliance, told CoinDesk in a statement.
The proposed stablecoin rules are part of a larger financial-services and markets bill that maps out the U.K.’s post-Brexit economic strategy. It looks to extend existing financial regulations to cover payments-focused cryptocurrencies such as stablecoins, which are cryptocurrencies intended to maintain a peg to a fiat currency, usually the U.S. dollar.
Those cryptocurrencies are defined broadly as “digital settlement assets,” or DSAs. The bill also puts the U.K. Treasury in charge of defining what DSAs are and assigning the Bank of England (BoE), Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Payments Systems Regulator (PSR) various powers to enforce the rules.
The U.K. is the latest major country to propose legislation targeting stablecoins. It was influenced in no small part by the downfall of terraUSD – a stablecoin that rapidly lost its peg to the U.S. dollar in May and led to the collapse of a $40 billion enterprise. The U.S. and Singapore are also stitching together regulatory frameworks to rein in stablecoin issuers.
Read more: UK Markets Bill Extends Banking Rules to Crypto Assets
Meanwhile, policymakers in the European Union recently agreed on the Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) bill that seeks to set up licensing rules for crypto firms and lay out stringent requirements for stablecoin issuers that wish to operate in the EU.
At least six industry experts told CoinDesk the U.K.’s proposed measures were a welcome step and align with the U.K.’s ambitions of becoming a global crypto hub.
“I see this as a key piece of legislation for financial services, which I hope can allow us to make the most of the opportunities of Brexit and to establish an approach to crypto regulation that is right for the U.K.,” said Lisa Cameron, a member of Parliament and chairwoman of the cross-party group for crypto.
“By bringing stablecoins within the scope of regulation, the bill paves the way for further adoption in the U.K., and this will be a key area of focus for parliamentarians as part of our inquiry into the wider sector,” she added.
Read more: UK Parliamentary Group Starts Crypto Inquiry to Form Policy Recommendations
Blair Halliday, managing director of the U.K. for Gemini, a crypto exchange and custodian, called the legislation a “positive move that recognizes the significant role that these assets will play in our economy and financial system in the future.”
Much like the EU’s MiCA legislation, the U.K.’s proposed rules place a heavy emphasis on systemic stablecoins, a term used to describe stablecoins issued at a large enough scale to threaten financial stability should they fail.
But whereas MiCA sets standards that need to be met for stablecoin issuers to operate in the EU, the U.K. bill assumes stablecoin issuers have already become operational and seeks to give powers to regulators to identify and supervise DSA service providers that are at risk of failure or bankruptcy, according to Matthew Nyman, a lawyer who specializes in crypto and blockchain fields at the CMS law firm in London.
“[This bill] is looking at the worst-case scenario,” Nyman said, adding that the U.K. still has “zero explicit regulation” for cryptocurrencies and that the new bill doesn't clarify whether a DSA service provider is allowed to operate, indicate how that provider should operate or who needs to authorize it.
“You might be forgiven for thinking that if they've put something in place for what happens at the end … That means they've already worked out what happens at the beginning. But they're doing it the other way around,” Nyman said.
The focus on failing DSA service providers reinforces the overall messaging around the U.K. government’s post-Brexit economic strategy, as well as the positions of regulators in the U.S. and the EU on containing the risks of systemic stablecoin issuers.
The goal is to strengthen the U.K.’s position as a tech hub while “safely” adopting crypto assets, Nadhim Zahawi, the country’s new finance minister, said when he introduced the markets bill.
The U.K. government’s planned discussions on wider digital assets including bitcoin (BTC) for later this year will be crucial in understanding where it really stands on crypto-friendliness, Nyman said.
“That will be the key test of whether what the government departments and what the regulators are doing … actually match up with what the politicians are saying,” he said.
Nyman also said it’s still unclear what role each regulator will play in setting up everything that’s “missing,” including an authorization regime for DSA service providers.
“The BoE will need to authorize any stablecoin, and there are due processes that firms will need to follow before being given authorization,” the PSR told CoinDesk in an emailed statement.
The proposed rules indicate the BoE will have final say over stablecoin issuers that could threaten the U.K. financial system or the central bank’s ability to “act in its capacity as a monetary authority.”
The BoE will detail its plans to regulate systemic stablecoins, including whether it will be authorizing firms next year, in a consultation, where the government lays out proposed regulatory measures in a document and invites the public or industry representatives to weigh in. The PSR, too, is planning to issue guidance on how it would regulate DSAs, including stablecoins.
The FCA, which has already been authorizing crypto companies under the government’s anti-money laundering rules, will probably continue to focus on consumer protection, according to Alleyne, while the BoE is likely to focus on wider financial stability.
Political turbulence in the U.K. government may cause delays in the bill’s passing.
“Until we get a new [prime minister], Parliament is never going to pass anything of serious magnitude, so we're effectively on pause until then,” Ryan Shea, crypto economist at Trakx, a Paris-based crypto index platform with a U.K. presence, told CoinDesk in an interview.
Adam Jackson, director of policy at U.K.-based crypto lobby group Innovate Finance, is concerned that the bill won’t become law until next year and that regulators won’t announce new rules until 2024."
205,92,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/18/cash-backed-husd-stablecoin-loses-peg-drops-to-092/,"Cash-Backed HUSD Stablecoin Loses Peg, Drops to 92 Cents",The stablecoin is trading as low as 89 cents against USDC on Curve Finance.,2022-08-18,"The HUSD stablecoin, which is issued by Stable Universal, has fallen to 92 cents, an 8% drop from its planned $1 peg, according to CoinMarketCap prices.
It is trading as low as 89 cents against the USDC stablecoin on decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol Curve Finance. The so-called depeg occurred 16 days after crypto exchange FTX removed HUSD from its basket of support USD stablecoins.
A stablecoin is a cryptocurrency designed to hold its value against another asset. This can be in the form of algorithmic stablecoins or reserve-backed coins, of which HUSD is an example. The stablecoin sector has been under intense regulatory scrutiny this year following the implosion of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST), which saw $18.71 billion evaporate alongside the collapse of Terra's LUNA token.
A year ago, HUSD published a breakdown of reserves that showed every issued token was backed by U.S. dollars held in cash in money market accounts. At press time HUSD has a market cap of $149.5 million.
HUSD is issued by Stable Universal and can be redeemed on a 1:1 basis against the U.S. dollar, according to the company's website.
Typically, when redemptions are live the price will gravitate toward the peg because if it's lower, traders can purchase tokens at a discount on an exchange and redeem for a full dollar through the company's website.
Stable Universal did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment."
206,303,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/19/crypto-lender-hodlnaut-faces-singapore-police-actions-and-staggering-job-cuts/,Crypto Lender Hodlnaut Faces Singapore Police ‘Actions’ and Job Cuts,"The firm, which is the latest in the crypto world to freeze withdrawals, said it is engaged in “proceedings” with authorities.",2022-08-19,"Singaporean crypto lender Hodlnaut disclosed massive layoffs and pending “police proceedings” in a Friday blog post that underscored the dire financial and legal straits faced by the latest firm to freeze crypto withdrawals.
Hodlnaut said in the blog that it fired 40 people, which was 80% of its staff, and slashed interest rates to a 0% annual percentage rate in an attempt to “stabilize our liquidity” and cut costs. Its founders are “working hard on a recovery plan” and remain in Singapore.
The interest-paying crypto swap shop said it is engaged in “proceedings” with Singaporean authorities. Its blog was mum on the details but characterized the proceedings as in users’ best interest. Hodlnaut froze those users' assets in early August, and it is now seeking protection from its creditors.
Hodlnaut is one of the many crypto firms such as hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and lenders Voyager Digital and Celsius Network to stumble under the cratering market condition. In its blog post, Hodlnaut cited “losses suffered” from the crash of the terraUSD stablecoin in May.
A Singapore court will hear Hodlnaut’s legal protection plea on Monday and may appoint an interim judicial manager to oversee the company’s financials in place of its current directors."
207,301,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/19/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-sinks-below-23k-south-koreas-bumpy-crypto-path-forward/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Sinks Below $23K; South Korea's Bumpy Crypto Path Forward,The largest cryptocurrency in market value fell late in the day to continue its recent losing streak.,2022-08-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin rose slightly to break a four-day losing streak; ether also climbed.
Insights: South Korea has growing crypto community that is still trying to make sense of the Terra debacle and other issues affecting the industry.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $22,802 −2.6%
●Ether (ETH): $1,813 −1.8%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,283.74 +0.2%
●Gold: $1,770 per troy ounce +0.5%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.88% −0.01
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Breaks Its Losing Streak
By James Rubin
Cryptos spent most of Thursday on the upswing before sinking late in the day.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $22,800, down about 2.5% over the past 24 hours. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization which has spiraled downward after reaching a two-month high above $25,000 last weekend. Late Wednesday, BTC fell below a bullish trendline after the release of minutes from the last Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting showed U.S. central bankers unlikely to lighten their current monetary hawkishness.
The Fed Reserve has raised interest rates a hefty 75 basis points at each of its last two meetings as it aims to suppress high inflation.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market value behind BTC, was recently changing hands just above $1,800, also down more than 2% from Wednesday and far removed from the $2,000 level perch it was still flirting with late Sunday. Merge excitement has tapered off in recent days.
""Bitcoin is range bound at the moment,"" said Nauman Sheikh, managing director at investment advisors Wave Financial, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""It's hit a $25,000, sort of resistance level. So has Ethereum hit a $2,000 resistance level. We're in a mode where the macro environment is supportive of the market, and we'll retest those resistance levels and hopefully break.""
Major altcoins that spent much of Thursday in promising territory also dove downward late in the day with YGG and OP recently plunging more than 14% and 13%. Popular meme coins DOGE and SHIB continued their retreat from early-week euphoria that sent their prices up double-digits with each recently sinking more than 10%.
Major equity traded sideways with the tech-focused Nasdaq and S&P 500 each rising a fraction of a percentage point as investors continued to weigh economic indicators and earnings that has often pointed in conflicting directions. On Thursday, the National Association of Realtors reported a sixth consecutive monthly decline in housing starts adding evidence of an economy cooling from the sting of Federal Reserve interest rate cuts. But initial jobless claims for the week ending Aug. 13 fell short of expectations as did the four-week average, underscoring the economy's stubborn strength.
Crypto news
The HUSD stablecoin, which is issued by Stable Universal, fell to 92 cents, an 8% drop from its planned $1 peg, according to CoinMarketCap prices early Thursday. And South Korea's anti-money laundering authority has started scrutinizing 16 foreign crypto firms it says have been operating in the country without proper regulatory approval, the agency said in a statement.
Despite the price drop over the past few days, Wave Financial's Sheikh noted optimistically that crypto ""speculation"" has recently returned. ""The crypto anatomy narratives are strong at this point,"" he said, adding: ""Speculation is going on. It's not all about Bitcoin and Ethereum. But the narrative is spreading and people are beginning to take more risk.""
South Korea's Bumpy Crypto Path Forward
By James Rubin
Just five months ago, South Korea seemed as if it was embarking on a fresh start where crypto innovation and investment would flourish.
The two presidential candidates, Yoon Suk-Yeo and Lee Jae-myung, were vying to convince voters which one would be more crypto friendly. Their jockeying underscored the growing importance of digital assets in the country, particularly among younger voters who have been opening accounts on crypto exchanges in droves, but were frustrated by the restrictive policies of the former President Moon Jae-In.
Yoon's victory, filled with the promise of smart regulation that would nurture new projects, protect investors and rid the industry of some of its more unsavory elements now seems like a blur in a rearview mirror. In recent weeks, Korea has ratcheted up its scrutiny of crypto exchanges and other businesses as it tries to make sense of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin collapse and other debacles that continue rippling through the industry.
Terra was founded in Korea, and attendees at last week's Blockchain Week (KBW), which included many of Terra’s original builders, investors and partners, avoided discussing the issue, seemingly more image conscious than interested in addressing the root causes of the implosion.
Heightened scrutiny?
On Thursday, South Korea's anti-money laundering authority flagged 16 foreign crypto firms it says have been operating in the country without proper regulatory approval. In a statement, the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU), part of South Korea's Financial Services Commission (FSC), said the firms had advertised crypto and offered services to Koreans without obtaining the requisite registration.
Last month, prosecutors raided seven cryptocurrency exchanges in South Korea investigating a fraud case in connection with the collapse of UST and the LUNA token that supported it. The targeted companies included Bithumb, Coinone and Upbit.
To be sure, the additional scrutiny is understandable, given the perception among many people that crypto lacks the protections and stability of more traditional assets. The current climate is fragile as projects that helped spur crypto's growth in Korea and beyond flail and fail, and bitcoin's price remains badly depressed from its high less than a year ago.
Still promising
But the country remains a hotbed of crypto interest filled with eager investors and developers who will undoubtedly have much to say about the asset's status in the Asia Pacific Rim region. Among other initiatives, Solana said it would pump up to $100 million into Korean crypto startups as it looks to penetrate a Terra-generated void in the developer market. Solana Ventures and the Solana Foundation will emphasize will seed investments and grants “across all Web 3 verticals."" Polygon, Avalanche and other smart contract platforms have also been eyeing the country's trove of orphaned crypto developers.
Earlier this week, local media outlet Edaily reported Thursday that Korea's financial watchdog wanted to fast-track the review of proposals for new crypto laws. The country's blockchain industry has bemoaned the slow pace of regulation, which it believes will help the industry mature.
Sometimes progress must overcome a few obstacles.
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): U.K. retail sales (July/MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Rep. Tom Emmer on State of Crypto Regulation, Tornado Cash Debate
The Tornado Cash ban is adding to an already heated debate in Washington, D.C., over who should regulate crypto and to what extent. Joining ""First Mover"" to share his thoughts is Rep. Tom Emmer of Minnesota. Also joining CDTV was Omid Malekan, Columbia Business School adjunct professor and Nauman Sheikh, Wave Financial managing director.
Buzz Over Potential Ethereum Hard Fork Token Fizzles as Price Tanks: Crypto traders’ appetite to speculate on the potential Ethereum hard fork remains muted on exchanges that listed the digital asset.
Bitcoin Loses Bullish Trendline as Fed Sees Restrictive Rates Needed for Some Time: Increasing and elevated rates are headwinds for bitcoin, one researcher said.
South Korea's Money Laundering Watchdog Flags 16 Crypto Firms for Operating Without Registration: Crypto exchanges KuCoin and Poloniex are among the foreign firms accused of conducting ""illegal business activities"" without proper registration, and could face fines or imprisonment.
Solana’s Biggest DeFi Lender is Leaning Into 'Permissionless' Loan Markets: These “permissionless pools'' don't have any of the safeguards afforded to Solend’s whitelisted markets. That’s by design.
Cash-Backed HUSD Stablecoin Loses Peg, Drops to 92 Cents: The stablecoin is trading as low as 89 cents against USDC on Curve Finance.
In Crypto, Base Layer Security Isn’t Enough: Blockchains are only as secure as the applications they run.
Other voices: The Crypto Geniuses Who Vaporized a Trillion Dollars: Everyone trusted the two guys at Three Arrows Capital. They knew what they were doing – right? (New York Magazine)
""It's a hypothetical we hopefully won't actually face. But if we did we'd go with [Plan] B, I think. Got to focus on the bigger picture. There may be some better option (C) or a legal challenge as well that could help reach a better outcome."" (Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong on the choice between quitting the Ethereum staking business or complying with potential U.S. sanctions on blacklisted Ethereum addresses) ... ""'We continue to take the necessary steps to ensure we are operationally compliant across the United States, our customers’ assets are secure, and our platform is safe and transparent,” said Brian Shroder, chief executive officer of Binance.US. “Receiving our Money Transmitter License in Nevada is further evidence of our ongoing compliance efforts, and we are thankful for the time and trust of the Nevada Department of Business and Industry.'” (Binance blog)"
208,304,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/19/husd-stablecoin-returns-to-1-peg-after-liquidity-problems/,HUSD Stablecoin Returns to $1 Peg After Liquidity Problems,"The HUSD team explained that the de-peg was caused by a market maker account that was closed, causing liquidity issues.",2022-08-19,"The HUSD stablecoin, which is issued by Stable Universal, has returned to its $1 peg after dropping 8% on Thursday.
In a tweet on Friday, HUSD said the fall in value was connected to several account closures, including market maker accounts. The coin's market cap, which slumped to $136.3 million on Thursday, is now back at $160 million.
Stablecoins are cryptocurrencies that are designed to hold value against other assets, commonly fiat currencies like the dollar or euro. TerraUSD (UST), which was an algorithmic stablecoin with a market cap of $18.71 billion, collapsed earlier this year. HUSD is cash-backed, which means that every issued token is backed by a dollar in a bank.
""We had made the decision to close several accounts in specific regions to comply with legal requirements, which included some market maker accounts. Due to the time difference in banking hours, this resulted in a short-term liquidity problem but has since been resolved,"" HUSD said in a tweet.
Crypto exchange Huobi said that it worked on resolving the issue, revealing that the peg was reinstated within 12 hours."
209,302,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/21/arrest-of-tornado-cash-developer-draws-dutch-crypto-community-protest/,Tornado Cash Developer's Arrest in the Netherlands Draws Community Protest,"After the detention of Alexey Pertsev, campaigners worry holding developers accountable for malicious use of their code could have a dangerous, chilling effect.",2022-08-21,"More than 50 people gathered in Amsterdam's Dam Square on Saturday to protest the arrest of blockchain developer Alexey Pertsev, who was arrested Aug. 10 on suspicion of involvement in the Tornado Cash protocol that was sanctioned earlier this month by U.S. authorities.
The 29-year-old was held just two days after the U.S Treasury Dept. froze Tornado, a virtual-currency mixer it said was used by North Korean hackers. After an Aug. 12 closed-door hearing, an examining judge agreed to keep him in custody for two weeks. A press release issued by Dutch financial crime authority FIOD said the arrest was on suspicion of “involvement in concealing criminal financial flows and facilitating money laundering” through the service, which can obfuscate the source and destination of funds that pass through it.
Read more: Tornado Cash Sanctions Are Spiraling Into Compliance Nightmares
While the system can be used to bury criminal proceedings, it also has legitimate applications. Dutch authorities have not stated just which laws Pertsev allegedly broke. Different press releases and statements have offered different explanations. Pertsev himself has yet to be charged with any wrongdoing, so the demonstrators were reluctant to comment on legal issues. Many, however, worry about what Pertsev's arrest means for the future of Web3 and are conscious of a chilling effect on the Netherlands’ blockchain ecosystem.
“It’s a case where the fundamental principle of crypto is being questioned,” Roman Buzko of law firm Buzko Krasnov told CoinDesk at the demonstration. The case concerns “whether code is an expression of free speech. In my view, it is.”
In the U.S., code is deemed protected under the First Amendment to the country's constitution, but that's a notion still being tested in Europe.
The protestors, who included Pertsev’s wife Xenia Malik, waved placards demanding his release and chanted “open source [code] is not a crime.”
FIOD also said that those behind decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO), the loose structures that govern many Web3 projects, “have made large-scale profits” from criminal flows, though it is not clear if they consider Pertsev to have been involved.
Read more: Tornado Cash Sanctions Are Spiraling Into Compliance Nightmares
The arrest “goes against everything I’ve been working on for the last couple of years,” protestor Eléonore Blanc said. “This is creating a chilling effect that goes against innovation, that goes against the community.”
The FIOD statement is “more FUD, more fear, uncertainty and doubt, coming from Dutch regulators and from Dutch institutions. It’s not good,” she said. Blanc is the founder of cryptocanal.org, a Web3 events and consultancy company. “Let’s stay competitive, let’s have clear laws … this creates uncertainty.”
Others say authorities should really be focused on holding accountable those responsible for debacles such as the recent crash of terraUSD.
“Alex is just a developer. They should be going after the true criminals,” said protestor and Web3 developer Naomi Schettini. Pertsev is “not responsible for criminals using his code for doing illicit activity. That’s like saying the inventor of the knife is responsible for murders. It’s truly ridiculous.”
The arrest could have implications for those in other areas of web development, said Rodrigo Zapata, a project manager in a blockchain-based biodiversity company.
It is “the equivalent to put someone in jail that codes Linux because some hackers somewhere in some country are using it for hacking some government systems,” Zapata told CoinDesk. “It's just ridiculous and out of proportion.”
Read more: US Treasury's Tornado Cash Sanctions Are ‘Unprecedented,’ Warns Congressman
Laws, he said, need to be updated for the open-source era. “Public authorities are overstepping what is supposed to be done by the legislators, and not by executive power.”
Whether the authorities will take notice is a different matter. While the gathering was one of the larger groups in the square wedged between the Royal Palace and Wax Museum in the heart of the capital, the #FreeAlex protestors jostled with Evangelical Christians, Satanists and performance artists dressed as Death and Jack Sparrow.
Among the other signs seeking attention: “Boycott Israel,” “Hands off Cuba,” “Jesus was Black,” ""Stop organ harvesting from Falun Gong"" and ""Democracy is back in Bolivia.”
Both FIOD and and the Dutch public prosecutor declined to comment when approached by CoinDesk before the demonstration.
Read more: #FreeAlexPertsev: Protests Planned for Amsterdam Following Tornado Cash Developer’s Arrest"
210,307,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/22/first-mover-asia-crypto-sell-off-due-to-fed-hawkishness-possible-jump-dump-of-eth-says-qcp-capital-cryptos-decline-slightly-in-monday-trading/,"First Mover Asia: Crypto Sell-Off Due to Fed Hawkishness, Possible Jump Dump of ETH, Says QCP Capital; Cryptos Decline Slightly in Monday Trading",Crypto asset trading firm QCP Capital will be eyeing remarks later this week by U.S. central bank Chair Jerome Powell for their potential effect on digital asset markets.,2022-08-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether fall slightly as investors fret over monetary policy and macroeconomic uncertainty.
Insights: Crypto asset trading firm QCP Capital blamed the recent crypto sell-off on Federal Reserve hawkishness and Jump Capital's possible jettisoning of ETH.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $21,216 −1.7%
●Ether (ETH): $1,588 −1.9%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,137.99 −2.1%
●Gold: $1,749 per troy ounce +0.1%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.04% +0.05
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Declines; Ether Falls, Although Investor Interest Is Reappearing
By James Rubin
Bitcoin remained firmly above $21,000 on Monday afternoon as investors continued their anxious fretting over coming remarks by U.S. Fed Chair Jerome Powell and the same macroeconomic uncertainty that has engulfed markets of all stripes for almost a year.
The largest cryptocurrency in market value was recently trading at about $21,100, down roughly a percentage point over the past 24 hours. BTC has dropped 10% over the past five days after the release of July's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting suggesting the bank would maintain its current inflation prescription of 75-basis point, interest rate hikes. Powell is widely expected to signal the central bank's intent in a speech at the Fed's annual Economic Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, later this week.
""Bitcoin momentum has evaporated as risky assets soften ahead of the Jackson Hole Symposium,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote in an email. ""Too much of Wall Street expects inflation to take two years or longer for the Fed to get inflation under control.""
Yet, Moya added that bitcoin weakness was ""not matching the selling pressure hitting stocks ... a sign that investors are not ready to see prices retest the June lows.""
Ether offered a two-pronged tale on Monday. The second-largest crypto by market cap was recently changing hands below $1,600, a more than 2% drop that left ETH at its lowest level in nearly three weeks amid investor concerns that venture firm Jump Capital was dumping the token. But as CoinDesk's Jimmy He wrote, a report by data provider Kaiko found that money was flooding back into the ETH futures market on Monday. “As the price dipped below $1,600, we observed a significant spike in open interest,” Kaiko noted.
Despite ether's recent drop, Arca Chief Investment Officer Jeff Dorman remained optimistic about its future pricing, saying in his weekly Two Satoshi newsletter that worries about it were overblown. While “long ETH” is certainly a crowded and telegraphed trade, it is likely still one of the best risk/reward investment opportunities in digital assets right now,"" Dorman wrote.
Other altcoins were largely in the red on average trading volume, with SOL and SAND recently off more than 6% and 5%, respectively.
Equity markets that have largely correlated with crypto prices suffered throughout the day from the same concerns plaguing crypto markets. The tech-focused Nasdaq and S&P 500 both sank over 2%, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) nearly as much as markets returned to the more risk-averse climate from earlier in the summer.
Moya noted that bitcoin could drop below $20,000 support if the dollar, which has been gaining strength, continues on this course. ""Bitcoin may have some defending the $20,000 level, but it may be tough for that level to hold if king dollar continues to appreciate leading up to Fed Chair Powell’s speech at the Jackson Hole Symposium,"" he wrote.
The Roots of the Current Crypto Sell-Off
By Shaurya Malwa
Crypto markets took a beating over the weekend as the Merge-induced ether rally fizzed and general “risk-off” sentiment drove prices lower – with futures seeing over $800 million in liquidations since Friday.
Ether fell 25% over the past week following a nearly month-long rise. DOGE and SHIB fell over 15% on Monday, while tokens powering layer 1 blockchains Avalanche, Polkadot and Solana saw declines of as much as 12%.
In a Telegram broadcast on Monday, Singapore-based QCP Capital blamed two factors, the U.S. central bank's continued monetary hawkishness, a possible Jump Capital sell-off, for the slide in the absence of a specific trigger, adding it expected markets to continue to trade sideways over the coming weeks.
“Fed officials have been actively pushing back on the dovish narrative in the market,” QCP traders said. “This has led to equities stalling and trading lower, yields drifting higher and [the U.S. dollar] rallying across the board.”
“Chatter about Jump dumping a large amount of ETH ahead of the Merge has contributed to the rush to take profit on ETH longs,” the firm added, referring to prominent crypto trading firm Jump Crypto.
QCP traders added they saw “significant profit taking” that ultimately led to liquidations of levered long positions that built up over a strong month-long rally, the effects of which were seen “especially in ether” which has rallied 130% in the past month.
The firm said it would be watching Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell's speech at the Jackson Hole economic symposium in Wyoming Friday for its potential impact on markets.
After the release last Wednesday of the Fed’s July minutes, the consensus among central bank observers is that Powell will signal additional, steep interest rate hikes in his symposium remarks, with some traders stating that bitcoin technicals have flipped bearish and that the largest crypto by market cap could see declines ahead, as CoinDesk reported, with some traders stating that bitcoin technicals have flipped bearish and that the
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun Bank manufacturing PMI (August preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Markets Look Ahead to Fed’s Economic Symposium, a Sector-by-Sector Breakdown of Digital Asset Performance
The crypto price slide last week suggested a bearish trend to analysts. But are there any bright spots? CoinDesk Indices' new report shows how major sectors are performing within the broader crypto markets. CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Jodie Gunzberg joined ""First Mover"" to discuss. Also, former CFTC Chairman and Harvard University Research Fellow Timothy Massad discussed his new paper on stablecoin regulation, and Kim Grauer of Chainalysis had an update on crypto crime.
Seven S. Korean Brokerages Plan to Start Crypto Exchanges Next Year: Report: Authorities in the country have trending towards strict oversight since the terraUSD collapse.
South Korea Plans to Tax Crypto Airdrop Recipients: Report: The government said crypto airdrops count as gifts under tax legislation.
Morgan Stanley Says Tightening in the Crypto Market Has Paused: While the market cap of stablecoins, an indicator of crypto liquidity, has stopped falling, demand for leverage has yet to start recovering, the bank said.
Bitcoin's 10% Weekly Drop Puts Bears in Control Ahead of Jackson Hole Symposium: Powell will skew on the hawkish side at Jackson Hole, analysts said.
Popular Uniswap Frontend Blocks Over 250 Crypto Addresses Related to DeFi Crimes: The move comes shortly after the U.S. government placed sanctions on privacy mixer Tornado Cash, prompting other decentralized finance developers to take protective measures.
It Doesn't Matter If They're Wrong, Central Bankers Set Guidance for Crypto, Too: Central bankers seem to have no clue where inflation is headed in the longer term, but markets are taking every clue they get from the Federal Reserve.
Other voices: Bitcoin Fog Case Could Put Cryptocurrency Tracing on Trial (Wired Magazine)
And to the person, company or group that donated 47BTC ... Stepping up like that, with no desire for clout or recognition, just wanting to help, without anyone knowing ... that is extremely #bitcoin. Love you, my anonymous brother(s)/sister(s). 🧡 (@hodlonaut) ... ""9/ In terms of direction, we continue to expect the markets to trade sideways in the near term. With that said, we have had a negative risk reversal position on (long puts vs. short calls) which means we get longer downside vol if spot moves lower."" (@QCPCapital)"
211,160,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/22/seven-s-korean-brokerages-plan-to-start-crypto-exchanges-next-year-report/,Seven S. Korean Brokerages Plan to Start Crypto Exchanges Next Year: Report,Authorities in the country have trending towards strict oversight since the terraUSD collapse.,2022-08-22,"Seven large traditional brokerages in South Korea have started laying the groundwork for their own crypto exchanges in the first half of next year, local newspaper NewsPim reported on Monday.
The firms have applied for preliminary approval and establishment of corporations to run virtual asset exchanges, the report said.
Mirae Asset Securities and Samsung Securities are among the seven firms, the newspaper reported, citing anonymous industry sources. Mirae has established a subsidiary under its affiliate Mirae Consulting, which is hiring technical staff for various cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens, while Samsung is studying how to enter the blockchain-based security tokens market, NewsPim reported. At the end of last year, Samsung could not find staff to build a crypto trading platform, the newspaper wrote.
South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol took office in May and had promised to be more friendly to the crypto industry and nurture new projects. However, due to the collapse of stablecoin terraUSD (UST), authorities have become more stringent, raiding exchanges and flagging others for not registering properly.
The fact that big traditional firms are looking to enter crypto is in line with Yoon's easing of regulations, NewsPim wrote.
Under former President Moon Jae-In, South Korean authorities had been trying to regulate the burgeoning crypto sector, requiring exchanges to register in a painstaking process.
Read more: 'Don't Say Terra' and Other Reflections From Korea's Crypto Extravaganza"
212,305,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/24/singapore-high-court-recognizes-three-arrows-capital-liquidation-order-report/,Singapore High Court Recognizes Three Arrows Capital Liquidation Order,"The decision will provide Three Arrow's liquidator, Teneo, the ability to probe assets held in Singapore.",2022-08-24,"The liquidators of Three Arrows Capital secured a crucial court decision in Singapore, which will give them the ability to probe the local assets of the defunct crypto hedge fund, a high court order signed on Wednesday says.
The Singapore High Court granted the request of Three Arrows Capital's appointed liquidator, Teneo, on Monday. This means that the court now legally recognizes the liquidation order originally filed in the British Virgin Islands.
Bloomberg reported the development earlier citing people familiar with the matter.
Recognition in Singapore gives Teneo the freedom to request all financial records held locally, this includes bank accounts, cryptocurrencies, stakes in companies and properties, the report said. In July, Three Arrows co-founder Su Zhu was reportedly looking to sell one of his homes in Singapore worth $35 million.
The fall of the hedge fund was part of a wider crypto contagion that swept across the entire industry. In May, algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) collapsed alongside the LUNA ecosystem, Three Arrows had exposure to the ecosystem and Su Zhu described the episode as ""humbling"".
After Terra's collapse, crypto lenders like Celsius Network and Voyager Digital filed for bankruptcy while several firms were forced to halt withdrawals as the liquidity crunch gripped the crypto markets.
The high court order states any parties with information in connection to ""the promotion, formation, business, dealings, affairs, property, rights, obligations or liabilities of Three Arrows Capital"" have a duty to cooperate with the liquidators as if they would if the hedge fund were a ""Singapore-incorporated company in liquidation in Singapore.""
Partners from New York-based Teneo Restructuring have gained control of at least $40 million of Three Arrow Capital's assets so far. This represents a small fraction of creditor claims, which are estimated to be at least $2.8 billion, according to a 1,157-page court filing published in July.
The founders of Three Arrows Capital broke their silence shortly after the court filing was released, with Su Zhu and Kyle Davies describing the collapse as ""regrettable.""
UPDATE (Aug. 24, 16:17 UTC): Adds and quotes official Singapore High Court order."
213,224,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/30/stablecoin-tether-dismisses-wall-street-journals-claim-of-inadequate-reserves/,Stablecoin Issuer Tether Dismisses Wall Street Journal's Claim of Inadequate Reserves,"The newspaper reported that the firm's assets outweigh its liabilities by just $191 million, implying a relatively ""thin cushion of equity.""",2022-08-30,"Stablecoin issuer Tether has refuted claims made in a Wall Street Journal report in relation to uncertainty over its balance sheet.
In an announcement on the company's website Tuesday, Tether said that U.S. Treasury bills have been the premier safe asset for decades in response to the Journal's claim that the company has a ""thin cushion of equity.""
The report said that Tether's assets, which were $67.7 billion on Aug. 25 according to an attestation by accountancy firm BDO, outweigh its liabilities by just $191 million, meaning that a mere 0.3% slump in assets could result in ""technical insolvency.""
Tether also insists that it is the most honest and transparent stablecoin issuer in the market, promising that it will provide monthly attestations starting in January in spite of criticism over the lack of a formal audit.
Stablecoins have fallen under scrutiny by both regulators and investors this year following the collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) that saw $18 billion in market cap evaporate. Terra's demise led to a period of crypto contagion that saw crypto companies Celsius Network, Voyager Digital and Three Arrows Capital all file for bankruptcy in the following months.
Tether's price momentarily dropped to 95 cents in May as fears over the viability of stablecoins intensified.
In June, it was reported that hedge funds were shorting position in tether worth hundreds of millions of dollars, but the stablecoin issuer refuted those claims."
214,98,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/03/theres-a-new-platform-for-bitcoin-backed-borrowing-and-its-courting-banks-to-lend/,There’s a New Platform for Bitcoin-Backed Borrowing and It’s Courting Banks to Lend,"Max Keidun, CEO of non-custodial bitcoin exchange Hold Hodl, is launching a decentralized platform for stablecoin and fiat loans with Casa, Blockstream, Bitfinex and others.",2022-09-03,"The collapse of big cryptocurrency lenders like Celsius Network and Voyager Digital this summer might have cooled the market, but Max Keidun says his new lending platform will be different – and has a shot at making banks love bitcoin (BTC).
“My dream is to get the banks to live by the bitcoin standard,” says Max Keidun, the CEO of peer-to-peer bitcoin exchange Hodl Hodl.
His new platform, Debifi, announced during the Baltic Honeybadger conference on Saturday, is scheduled to launch next year. It will allow users to borrow long-term loans in stablecoins and fiat using their bitcoin as collateral. Some banks have already shown interest in joining Debifi as lenders, Keidun said, refusing to name any.
“We already have liquidity providers, but fiat loans will be added half a year after the platform launches,” Keidun said, adding Debifi will take off some time in the first quarter of 2023.
The lenders, both of fiat and stablecoins, will all be institutions, Keidun said, and the fiat lenders will need to have appropriate licenses to join the platform.
“We will know them all, do our due diligence on them,” he said.
For now, two companies have agreed to work with the new platform to provide liquidity, Keidun said: centralized exchange Bitfinex, which is also a sister company of the largest stablecoin issuer Tether; and XBTO, a crypto financial company that is also providing bitcoin-backed fiat loans itself. Both are investors in Hodl Hodl, a non-custodial bitcoin exchange Keidun is running: Bitfinex invested an undisclosed amount in Hodl Hodl in July 2021 and XBTO participated in Hodl Hodl’s Series B funding round in October 2021.
Both companies confirmed their involvement with Keidun’s upcoming project. ""Bitfinex is excited to collaborate with Debifi and support a bitcoin-first institutional liquidity pool,” Bitfinex spokesperson told CoinDesk in an email.
There has been also support from the bitcoin-focused venture capital: according to Keidun, Ten31 fund invested in Debifi.
Keidun is no stranger to lending: In 2020, he launched a peer-to-peer lending marketplace called Lend, which allows users to lend and borrow stablecoins in an anonymous and non-custodial way. Just like Hodl Hodl, Lend uses multisignature escrows. When a deal is initiated, be it a bitcoin sale on Hodl Hodl or a bitcoin-backed loan on Lend, the user’s bitcoin gets locked in the multisig that requires two out of three keys to unlock it.
Each side of the deal (the buyer and the seller or the lender and the borrower) gets a key. The third one is controlled by Hodl Hodl or Lend. If there is a dispute between the parties, the company referees and the bitcoin is sent to the prevailing side. This way users don’t have to trust the platform with their bitcoin, which is not stored in a big central wallet, and also don’t have to verify their identities. The broad consensus in the crypto industry so far has been that non-custodial platforms are not considered money transmitting businesses.obliged and so are not obliged to do KYC (know-your-client) checks on their users.
Read more: Bitcoin Hodlers Get a Lending Option With No KYC
Debifi will work differently.
Unlike Hodl Hodl and Lend, on Debifi users will probably need to go through a KYC check for most of the loan offerings. However, it will be up to each lender and the personal information will be collected by lenders, not Debifi, Keidun said.
Debifi, for which Keidun is now assembling a different team, separate from those of Hodl Hodl and Lend, will also have a different design: instead of two-out-of-three multisigs, it will use three-out-of-four ones.
As Keidun explains, one additional key will belong to a fourth holder, which, together with Hodl Hodl, will ensure security of the funds. These fourth key holders, as Keidun calls them, will be one of the small pool of reputable bitcoin companies, including Casa Hodl, Blockstream and Jan3, a startup by Blockstream’s former chief strategy officer, Samson Mow. All three companies confirmed their involvement.
The addition of the fourth key is meant to strengthen the new platform’s security: if a scammer or a hacker wanted to abuse the protocol and steal money from escrow, they would have to compromise not just the platform’s key but also the one held by Casa, Blockstream or Jan3, Keidun explained.
The multisignature escrow for Debifi will be coded from scratch instead of using the existing code for Lend’s multisigs, Keidun said, adding: “It’s better to write a new thing than fix what you already have.” (Hodl Hodl and Lend will undergo some upgrading, too, he said.)
“Back when we launched our lending platform, some people criticized us, saying that the platform could collude with one of the sides of the deal, take the bitcoin out of escrow and scam the other party,” Keidun said. “And now, there is one more key. And the holders are big reputable companies. They won’t scam people.”
Other new features will be loans with expiration terms up to five years (Lend lets users open loan contracts for no longer than 12 months) and native integration of hardware wallets. Users will be able to create escrow wallets using their own hardware wallets, so that they would use a signature generated by their own device, not by the platform, as it is now for Hodl Hodl and Lend.
Unlike in 2018-2019, when cryptocurrency-backed lending was taking off and companies like BlockFi and Celsius were emerging and growing fast, 2022 would appear to be an inopportune time to start a business in this market. The collapse of Terra and LUNA, along with a general bearish trend and some reckless gambling by market participants, took down a whole bunch of multimillion-dollar companies, including Three Arrows Capital, Voyager and Celsius.
However, Debifi’s partners believe the crisis was a useful lesson, of which Debifi can take advantage.
“If you look at the recent spate of implosions with centralized lending platforms that are based on opaque relationships and unsecured loans, it's clear that the old system is fundamentally broken,” said Mow, Blockstream’s former chief strategy officer and founder of a bitcoin-focused startup Jan3.
The centralized crypto lenders, he added, didn't use blockchain technology to improve their businesses. “Debifi actually leverages real technology to deliver a better solution, and will make the entire ecosystem stronger and more respectable,” Mow said.
Nick Neuman, CEO of Casa, said the “hybrid custody” approach of Debifi, when there is no single third party in charge of users’ money, will give people more control over what is happening to their bitcoin than companies like BlockFi and Celsius did.
“What you need is transparency around the risks that you are taking. When customers are holding the keys for the collateral that they use, they can see on-chain where those funds are sitting and if those funds are being put at risk,” Neuman said.
And while with Debifi’s three-out-of-four multisig setup, funds can be moved out of the escrow without a user’s permission, as Keidun acknowledged, they are “not sitting in a massive custodian pool, where you don’t know what they’re doing,” Neuman said.
Adam Back, co-founder and CEO of Blockstream, said getting traditional banks on board would bring an “enormous pool of capital in conventional capital markets with relatively low interest rates” into the bitcoin ecosystem, which would lower the rates on the bitcoin lending market.
“The reason borrowing interest rates are high in the bitcoin ecosystem is that most of the capital at play is bitcoiner capital, and they tend to be heavily invested in BTC and short of USD, so as a borrower you are bidding against their alternative of buying bitcoin themselves,” Back said.
One motivation for Keidun with this new project was watching the explosive growth of non-bitcoin decentralized finance (DeFi) products, mostly on Ethereum, which, as a bitcoin maximalist, he considers an inferior system to say the least.
“I see that bitcoin lending is losing to the s**tcoin lending. If we want bitcoin to be the top asset, we need to compete with those projects,” he said.
The concept of Debifi will be clear and attractive for maximalists like Keidun himself, he said: No single entity has full control over the bitcoin collateral and there is no rehypothecation – meaning, the bitcoin in escrows is not used by the platform to earn additional yield.
“This solution will be easy to understand both for bitcoin maximalists and banks,” Keidun believes.
Debifi will work as a marketplace and will not provide any loans itself, Keidun said. It would offer a ready technology to the institutional crypto companies and traditional banks that are interested in working with bitcoin, so those banks won’t have to grapple with the new technology themselves.
“They will be talking directly to their bitcoiner clients and finally see what a great collateral asset bitcoin is. It’s 24/7, it’s transparent,” Keidun said.
According to him, a handful of banks from Europe, the U.S., Asia-Pacific and Caribbean regions have already shown interest in the platform. Keidun said that luring banks down the bitcoin rabbit hole will change the role of bitcoin in the financial system.
“Bitcoin has already shown itself as an unstoppable trading asset. My theory for bitcoin for the next 10 years is that it will become a loan asset, a kind of super collateral,” Keidun said.
This is a vision at least some prominent bitcoiners might share, like Samson Mow. “Non-custodial lending platforms for institutions will be the next big thing,” he said.
UPDATE: (Sept. 3, 2022, 16:50 UTC): Adds the information about Ten31 involvement."
215,29,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/07/ether-cardano-lead-steep-crypto-slide-amid-dollar-strength/,"Ether, ADA Lead Steep Crypto Slide Amid Dollar Strength",Some analysts said impending monetary tightening could add to a global rout across major asset classes such as equities and crypto.,2022-09-07,"Cryptocurrencies snapped an almost weeklong run above resistance levels as a strengthening dollar sent global equity and currency markets into declines.
Ether (ETH) and Cardano's ADA have both dropped almost 9% in the past 24 hours, giving up a week's worth of gains to become the biggest decliners among major cryptocurrencies. Ether's slide came despite the activation of the Bellatrix upgrade – the Ethereum network's final ""hard fork"" before the Merge – on Tuesday.
Bitcoin (BTC) fell 5.5%, trading under $18,900 in early European hours. BNB and Solana’s SOL fell 5%; XRP dropped 4% and Polkadot’s DOT lost 7%. Futures tracking major tokens racked up $327 million in liquidations, while the total cryptocurrency market capitalization slid below $1 trillion for the first time since July.
Losses on meme coins dogecoin (DOGE) and shiba inu (SHIB) averaged 6%. Outside of the majors, Ethereum Classic’s ETC fell some 16% after a double-digit rally on Tuesday, with Terra’s old luna classic (LUNC) tokens seeing a 20% slide after more than doubling over the past week.
Concerns about aggressive U.S. Federal Reserve monetary tightening were heightened when the dollar climbed overnight, hitting a 24-year high against the Japanese yen and setting a lifetime peak against the Indian rupee. The S&P 500 lost 0.4% and the Nasdaq 100 0.7% on Tuesday as tech stocks slid.
In a note Wednesday, analysts at Arcane Research warned of increased volatility in the coming days after the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI) data for August is released on Sept. 13. Also, the European Central Bank will make its interest rate decision on Thursday. The ECB is forecast to hike rates by 75 basis points. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
“These macro events, combined with the Merge, might be catalysts for going forward,” the analysts said, adding traders remained bullish on ether ahead of the Ethereum blockchain's Merge event.
As for bitcoin, the Fed’s expected tightening presented a “bad outlook,” according to Chris Esparza, founder of decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol Vault Finance.
“Tightening generally reduces the printing of cash to prop up the economy as we had in the COVID-19 pandemic years,” Esparza said. Bitcoin investors must focus on the fundamentals of the asset instead of relying on macroeconomic market gauges, he told CoinDesk.
“With countries formulating functional regulations to guide the nascent ecosystem, the level of adoption is bound to grow in the long term, creating a positive stance for investors to stack up now.""
Read more: The Final Countdown to the Ethereum Merge Has Officially Begun"
216,2,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/08/crypto-terra-luna-classic-surges-as-traders-speculate-on-new-supply-burn-rule/,Crypto Terra Luna Classic Surges as Traders Speculate on New Supply Burn Rule,"In an attempt to revive the failed Terra blockchain’s token, the approved proposal will destroy 1.2% of every transaction to reduce supply.",2022-09-08,"Luna classic (LUNC), the renamed native token of the Terra blockchain that dramatically imploded in May, is rising in value as traders bet that a soon-to-be implemented rule may breathe some life into the much-maligned token.
LUNC gained 22% in the past 24 hours, and doubled its price in a week, according to data by crypto intelligence platform Messari. Still, the token is changing hands at a fraction of a cent ($0.00052 to be precise) and it is down more than 99.99% since the start of the year.
A “tax burn” regime that aims to reduce the token’s hyperinflated supply is likely fueling the rally.
The community approved a proposal that introduces a 1.2% tax rate on every transaction on the blockchain. According to the proposal, the “tax” will automatically be sent to a wallet to destroy (burn) the tokens to bring down gradually LUNC’s bloated circulating supply. The fee rate is expected to take effect on Sept. 20, according to a statement from Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume.
The rate cannot be enforced on trading the token on centralized exchanges, as a member of the Terra governance forum pointed out, but some exchanges such as MEXC will voluntarily adopt the fee.
Binance also announced Thursday that it will add LUNC trading against Tether's USDT to its trading pair list, starting Friday.
However, the price rise may prove to be short-lived as the new fee parameter is unlikely to attract new investors to the blockchain, according to Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda. “It still remains a tough period for crypto in general and investors still have a bad Terra taste in their mouth from the collapse earlier in the year,” he told CoinDesk.
Howard Greenberg, cryptocurrency educator at Prosper Trading Academy, said that “this is a total speculation play and basically turns LUNC into a meme coin at this point.”
“It will be a very volatile trade, and if someone chooses to enter the trade I would make sure you have an exit plan for both downside and upside.”
The Terra blockchain’s multibillion-dollar implosion in May was the epicenter of the current crypto crisis and led to the insolvency of multiple crypto lenders and investment firms. The network’s algorithmic stablecoin, terraUSD (formerly UST), lost its peg to the dollar, and sent LUNC (formerly LUNA), which was supposed to stabilize the stablecoin, into hyperinflation. The current supply of LUNC is nearly 7 trillion tokens, and even taking into account the new burn it won’t significantly change the coin’s fundamentals.
Most developers and investors have left the network. Those who decided to stay created a duplicate of the Terra blockchain as part of an attempt to have a fresh start for the ecosystem. The old blockchain still remained functional and was rebranded to Terra Classic, hosting the stablecoin USTC and its sister token LUNC.
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?"
217,13,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/09/terras-luna-token-gains-200-in-a-few-hours-amid-speculative-frenzy/,Terra’s LUNA Token Gains 200% in a Few Hours Amid Speculative Frenzy,The sudden rally of the revived Terra network’s token comes after a similar surge of the collapsed Terra Classic blockchain’s LUNC token.,2022-09-09,"LUNA, the cryptocurrency of the Terra blockchain’s recreated version after dramatically imploding earlier this year, tripled in price within a few hours time Friday, trading close to its all-time high set in early June when the token was introduced.
The token’s price skyrocketed to almost $7 from less than $2, according to data by cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko. At press time, LUNA was changing hands at around $6, up more than 212% in the past 24 hours with vastly higher trading volume seen during recent days.
LUNA is the native token of the second version of the Terra blockchain, brought back to life after Terra’s collapse in May, which wiped out $60 billion in value. The implosion led to investigations for fraud against Terraform Labs, the firm that created the blockchain, and its founder Do Kwon. The old blockchain was rebranded to Terra Classic, and hosts the luna classic (LUNC) token and its stablecoin USTC.
Risky assets such as cryptocurrencies appear to be rallying broadly Friday in a relief rally as multiple economic indicators signal a slowing global economy and traders are weighing the possibility that the Federal Reserve might slow down rate hikes sooner than expected or even cut interest rates next year.
The newly launched CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which tracks the price movement of a basket of 148 cryptocurrencies measuring the performance of the broader crypto market, is up 5.6% in the past 24 hours. Bitcoin (BTC) is leading the rally as it jumped to $21,000 from $19,000, marking its highest daily gain in six months.
Read more: Crypto’s S&P 500: CoinDesk Unveils Broad-Market, Digital-Asset Index
LUNC has also surged as traders got excited about a new burn scheme that would reduce the token’s hyperinflated supply, as CoinDesk reported Thursday. The rally has somewhat stalled since then, as the coin slid 17% in the past day.
Crypto market watchers are puzzled about LUNA’s wild price movement as there hasn’t been any news or development specific to the network that would ignite hype amid retail traders.
Data by digital asset social intelligence platform LunarCrush points to a retail speculative frenzy, as mentions and engagements on social media platforms have shot up recently.
So far, the new Terra blockchain struggled to attract investors to its ecosystem. The network’s total value locked (TVL) – an important metric in decentralized finance (DeFi) that measures how much value a protocol can accrue from investors – stood at a meager $51 million at press time, while the “old” Terra Classic blockchain’s TVL reached more than $20 billion in May before its collapse, according to DeFi data tracker DeFiLlama."
218,11,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/12/terras-luna-tumbles-more-than-30-making-u-turn-from-surge/,"Terra’s LUNA Tumbles More Than 30%, Making U-Turn From Surge",The price action in LUNA and LUNC tokens looks more like that of meme tokens such as DOGE and SHIB.,2022-09-12,"After skyrocketing last week, LUNA – the new token from the Terra blockchain that had spectacularly collapsed in May – made its way down to Earth, falling as much as 33% on Monday.
The token was trading around $4.20 as of press time. It had reached $7.60 on Friday, an all-time high since June.
The market capitalization fell to $542 million, cryptocurrency data aggregator CoinGecko shows.
The second version of LUNA was created after Terra lost $60 billion in value because of its May implosion. Authorities are in the process of investigating the affiliated Terraform Labs and co-founder Do Kwon for alleged fraud.
The original Terra chain was rebranded Terra Classic, and its native token – the former LUNA, now luna classic (LUNC) – has also dropped in price Monday after a surge last week. LUNC’s price was trading at $0.0003 as of 1:15 p.m. ET, down 17% in the past 24 hours, according to CoinGecko.
Howard Greenberg, cryptocurrency educator at Prosper Trading Academy, told CoinDesk last week the surge in LUNC's price made it look like ""a meme coin at this point.”"
219,8,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/14/terras-luna-luna-classic-tokens-plunge-as-south-korea-issues-arrest-warrant-for-do-kwon/,"Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens Plunge as South Korea Issues Arrest Warrant for Do Kwon",Terra-based decentralized finance products saw outflows of over $20 million Wednesday morning.,2022-09-14,"Terra tokens luna (LUNA) and luna classic (LUNC) plunged as a South Korean court issued an arrest warrant against Do Kwon, the network's founder, and five others on Wednesday morning.
LUNA fell 36% in the past 24 hours while LUNC dropped 25%, with much of the price movement coming after news of the warrant was made public on Wednesday morning. The warrant was issued four months after the collapse of the $40 billion Terra ecosystem and its algorithmic stablecoin (UST), which was the first domino to fall in this year's crypto winter.
Valued locked on Terra-based products fell 30%, dropping from more than $55 million to under $29 million at the time of this writing as the tokens fell and with investors likely withdrawing capital, data shows.
Last week, LUNA gained 200% in a speculative rally following the release of a fundamental catalyst on luna classic, the network’s old tokens. Those gains were mostly reversed as traders took profits in the following days, and are now nearly negligible as LUNA tokens slump back to the prices of Sept. 5.
(This is a developing story.)"
220,28,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/09/15/ethereum-pow-is-not-an-ethereum-competitor/,Ethereum PoW Is Not an Ethereum Competitor,"Will proof-of-work blockchains benefit from the Merge, beyond short-term speculation?",2022-09-15,"Ethereum, the world’s most active cryptocurrency network, just fired all of its miners. In a much-anticipated event you may have heard of called the Merge, Ethereum devs “switched out the engine of a moving car” to do away with the energy intensive process of securing blockchains known as proof-of-work (PoW).
That means scores of specially designed graphics chips, called ASICs (or application-specific integrated circuits), need to be pointed elsewhere if their owners – individuals, institutions and mining pools – want to churn a profit. There are only a few blockchains that use a similar-enough hashing function to Ethereum that could benefit from the estimated $5 billion worth of EtHash ASIC hardware in existence.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Already it seems that Ethereum Classic, a version of Ethereum that split from the “canonical chain” in 2016, has been a big winner. Ethereum Classic has seen its network hash power jump about 300% last night to closer to 300 terra hashes per second (TH/s) today, according to data site 2miners. (Hash power is the amount of computational energy used to secure a PoW crypto network.)
See also: Proof-of-Work vs. Proof-of-Stake: What Is the Difference?
Other, smaller, mostly inconsequential, chains like Ravencoin and Ergo have also seen massive spikes in hash power and the price of their native tokens. It remains to be seen whether this is a sustainable rally, considering the limited number of things you can do with – or reasons to build around – RVN and ERG.
Nowhere is the balancing act between the market price for a crypto token and the amount of energy people are willing to expend to earn those tokens clearer than in the alternative proof-of-work Ethereum fork aptly named ETHPOW.
The latest, buzziest Ethereum fork – “designed” by veteran Ethereum miner, initial coin offering (ICO) pitchman and principal architect of Ethereum Classic, Chandler Guo – was set up to benefit from the Ethereum Merge. Through promises of an airdrop (free money for ether holders) and charisma, Guo managed to convince at least 19 former Ethereum mining pools to continue mining his new chain.
Its token, ETHW, rallied from $35 to $60 in the hours following the network’s launch shortly after the Merge, before dropping to around $20 currently. This likely isn’t surprising to the number of people who predicted ETHPOW would come dead on arrival.
Although there could actually be a post-Merge market fit for a smart contract blockchain that utilizes mining (considering the top fleet of such chains from Solana to Cardano all use a variation of PoS), many have said ETHPoW is more of a cash grab. Despite seemingly large trading interest (or at least interest in the airdrop), few exchanges jumped to list the coin. Tether said it would integrate the chain and many a crypteratto warned it would “fracture” the Ethereum community.
CoinDesk Special Coverage: The Ethereum Merge
Critics noted ETHPoW failed to build basic blockchain infrastructure like a wallet or a block explorer before launch. Igor Artamonov, a former Ethereum Classic developer, questioned the chain’s branding, which seemed to sell itself on the idea of saving those poor, recently chainless miners, rather than something collectively important like proof-of-work’s tried and true security guarantees.
But the real reason the network will likely struggle to take off is that much of Ethereum’s insanely valuable decentralized finance (DeFi) economy may not follow the fork. That is, seemingly, both by choice and in some cases necessity for many DeFi protocols due to broken oracles.
Although many of Ethereum’s loudest boosters seemed to be championing the demise of ETH PoW before it even started – because the alternative chain could suck capital and developer talent from the Ethereum Foundation-approved network – it was probably never accurate to say Ethereum PoW was a competitor of Ethereum.
See also: Crypto Miner F2Pool Mined the Last-Ever PoW Ether Block
What it is, instead, is a competitor to Ethereum Classic, which forked in 2016. It’s a competitor for hashpower, for hardware. Its token, which is listed on a few exchanges including Poloniex and Gate.io (with futures trading on Binance and FTX), is a competitor for attention and dollars.
Ethereum Classic itself was never much of a contender for Ethereum’s throne. The network was hit with 51% attacks multiple times in the previous years, because the network struggled to pay for its own security because its token’s price was in the doldrums because few people (besides CoinDesk owner Barry Silbert) supported the network.
Post-Merge Ethereum Classic now has an overabundance of network miners. But it’s still unclear whether the token price can rise high enough for all of those ASICs to be profitable. Before the Merge, it was estimated Ethereum’s hashing power was 15 times higher than Ethereum Classic. That’s a lot of computing power to absorb, even if split between ETH PoW and the other PoW beneficiaries.
Proof-of-work networks need valuable tokens to make it worthwhile to mine, but it also needs developers and users. We might finally learn the answer to crypto’s perennial chicken-and-egg-like problem: what comes first, a valuable token or valued users?"
221,102,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/15/first-mover-asia-defi-builders-speak-out-what-the-crowd-is-getting-wrong-about-the-ethereum-merge/,First Mover Asia: DeFi Builders Speak Out; What the Crowd Is Getting Wrong About the Ethereum Merge,"The Merge will lead to the reduction of the Ethereum blockchain’s carbon footprint, but it will not lower gas fees or improve Ethereum’s scalability, coders behind popular Ethereum-based projects said; bitcoin trades sideways.",2022-09-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Ether rises ahead of the Merge; bitcoin trades sideways but holds above $20K.
Insights: The Ethereum Merge has raised high hopes among investors and others, but misconceptions about its potential benefits abound.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $20,107 −0.9%
● Ether (ETH): $1,619 +2.5%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $1,017 +0.6%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,946.01 +0.3%
● Gold: $1,704 per troy ounce −0.0%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.41% −0.01
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Ether Rises as Merge Nears; Bitcoin Holds Above $20K
By James Rubin
A day after worrying inflation figures sent risk assets spiraling downward, bitcoin held fast above $20,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,100, roughly where it stood 24 hours earlier as investors continued to chew on the latest inflation figures and potential actions by the U.S. central bank at its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting next week. The FOMC seems likely to boost interest rates 75 basis points for a third consecutive time, although the prospects of a 100 basis point hike rose to over 30% on Wednesday.
Ether outperformed bitcoin and was recently trading at over $1,600, a more than 2% gain in the final hours before the hotly anticipated Merge, the technological overhaul to a proof-of-stake protocol that promises to be faster and more energy efficient than its proof-of-work predecessor.
""Given the jump in ETH/USD’s price last month, the Merge appears to have been priced in,"" James Trescothick, global market analyst for brokerage platform tixee, wrote in an email. ""This has been circulating for some time, so there is no element of surprise, so a strong rally is not likely.""
Most other cryptos in the CoinDesk top 25 by market cap spent much of Wednesday in the green with ETC and LINK up more than 8% and 3%, respectively. ETC was recently trading at about $38, an approximately 30% gain from late last month and about three times its price in mid July. The shift in Ethereum's consensus mechanism has motivated network participants to refocus on ETC, the native token of Ethereum Classic, which was created in 2016 when Ethereum's blockchain split into two separate chains.
Stocks
Equity markets revived somewhat from their Thursday thrashing with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), S&P 500 and tech-heavy Nasdaq all trading up a few fractions of a percentage point, although a looming U.S. railway strike could lead to additional inflation pressures. Officials from the Biden Administration and union and railway company representatives were meeting to try to avoid the work shutdown.
Investors will be eyeing the release of U.S. retail sales data on Thursday for an additional signal of inflation's impact, likely Fed action and the direction of the economy. The report by the U.S. Census Bureau will come two days after the latest consumer price index (CPI) arrived at a disappointing 8.3%, higher than the consensus.
Trescothick of tixee wrote that data had clearly shown inflation to be ""the main threat to the U.S. economy ... that will drive the Federal Reserve to continue its aggressive attitude to bring CPI down to its target of 2% by hiking interest rates further.""
""There is real concern that with higher interest rates, the U.S. economy will fall into recession, which is hurting risky assets,"" he wrote.
Crypto news
The fallout from the collapse of the $40 billion Terra ecosystem and its algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST), which was the first domino to fall in this year's crypto winter, continued with a South Korean court's issue of an arrest warrant for TerraForm Labs co-founder Do Kwon.
And a federal judge granted a motion for the U.S. Trustee's office to appoint an independent examiner to investigate embattled crypto lender Celsius Network’s financial management that led the firm to file for bankruptcy earlier this summer.
But crypto eyes remained laser-focused on the Merge and its potential upside. Joe Orsini, vice president of research at crypto investment manager Eaglebrook Advisors, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that while the public's technical understanding of the Merge was lacking, ""just seeing Ethereum in the news represented ""great strides.""
""When you consider the adoption and how quickly it's become mainstream in the big picture of things – Bitcoin, 13 years old; Ethereum, about seven years old – these are great strides for these emerging assets that ultimately have a long, long and attractive opportunity set ahead of them,"" Orsini said.
Major Misconceptions About the Ethereum Merge Revealed
By Shaurya Malwa
If ether holders were to coin an expression, they’d most likely be saying, “Thank God! It's Thursday.”
Thursday (UTC) is expected to mark the genesis of the Merge, a much-awaited upgrade to the Ethereum network that moves the protocol from a proof-of-work (PoW) consensus mechanism to a proof-of-stake (PoS) design.
Developers say the move away from a proof-of-work system will make the network much cheaper and faster, and more environmentally friendly. However, the change will also mean the end of an income stream for Ethereum miners, who are rewarded with ether tokens for supplying resources to the blockchain.
“The Merge to proof-of-stake dramatically reduces Ethereum’s power consumption by 99.9%,” said Junnu Salovaara, head of crypto finance company Likvidi, adding the network would now sit alongside arguably sustainable projects such as Tezos, Solana and Algorand.
Mistaken notions
But misconceptions abound, coders behind some of the most popular Ethereum-based products told CoinDesk. Despite its benefits, the Merge is not going to make the network much cheaper or immediately scalable, developers point out.
“The biggest misconception on the Merge is that it will lower gas fees,” said Steven Walbroehl, chief technical officer of crypto security firm Halborn. “This is not true. It is a change of consensus mechanism, not an expansion of network capacity that would result in lower gas fees.”
Walbroehl and others also say that the Merge is unlikely to have a big impact on layer 2, or companion, blockchains, despite what loyalist sentiment on Crypto Twitter believes.
“I don’t think the Merge will have an impact on layer 2 projects,” he said, adding that while such blockchains “exist to make up for limitations” on the core Ethereum network, layer 2 systems like Arbitrum and Optimism provide speed and savings in gas cost and will “still be used.”
The Merge is also unlikely to improve Ethereum’s scalability significantly, James Key, CEO of Autonomy Network told CoinDesk. “It's a common misconception that The Merge will bring more scalability to Ethereum, because while it introduces proof-of-stake, which makes the network more efficient and environmentally friendly, it won't make transactions cheaper, he said.
Key said scalability, however, comes later as “sharding” is introduced on the Ethereum network. Sharding is a proposed method of splitting the infrastructure of Ethereum into smaller pieces with the goal of scaling the platform so it can support many more users than it currently does.
But even then, fees are likely to reduce to the level of those on layer 2 systems, which means users are likely to end up using those solutions instead of Ethereum. “Many [decentralized finance] applications will want to be on the same shard. And since fees will still be cheaper on layer 2s, it would give an even greater incentive to use those solutions compared to today.”
Energy savings
Despite the shortcomings, some observers highlight that the Merge is likely to change public perception of blockchains being “wasteful.”
“Ethereum and Bitcoin, the two oldest and largest blockchain projects, are both still using PoW, which is widely (and rightly) considered wasteful,” Mihailo Bjelic, co-founder of Polygon, told CoinDesk in an email. “Lately that has started to significantly impact the public opinion about Ethereum as a development platform and some startups, and enterprises became hesitant to explore Web3.”
“With The Merge, Ethereum is moving to PoS (proof-of-stake), which will exponentially reduce its carbon footprint,” added Bjelic. He claimed that startups and enterprises are “already regaining confidence” and embracing blockchain-based solutions for their usage.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia Consumer inflation expectations (Sept.)
5:15 p.m. HKT/SGT(9:15 a.m. UTC): Speech by Luis De Guindos, vice-president of the European Central Bank
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. initial jobless (Sept. 9)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Arrest Warrant Issued for Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon; Ethereum Merge Countdown
A South Korean court has issued an arrest warrant for Do Kwon, co-founder of Terra and its algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD (UST) that collapsed four months ago, setting off an industrywide fallout. Joining ""First Mover"" to discuss what this means for the crypto industry and to share his thoughts on the Ethereum Merge was Matthew Graham, CEO of Sino Global Capital. Joe Orsini of Eaglebrook Advisors provided his crypto markets analysis.
A Peculiar Flavor of NFTs Is Thriving in China – One Regulators Can Abide: Unlike most non-fungible tokens, China’s “digital collectibles” are built on closed networks and designed to appease regulators who frown on trading and speculation.
Crypto Traders in Wait-and-See Mode in Countdown to Ethereum Merge: Ether was trading around the $1,500 level as the Merge approaches in less than 12 hours. Bitcoin was back below $20,000.
Crypto Giant FTX Eyes Raising Money to Fund Acquisitions: Source: Sam Bankman-Fried’s exchange is raising capital as it considers a retail-focused deal, a person familiar with the matter said.
South Korean Court Issues Arrest Warrant for Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon: The warrant also includes five others, according to a report.
Bitcoiners Owe Andrew Ross Sorkin a Big Thank You: By successfully campaigning to further politicize the payments system, The New York Times columnist just made value-neutral cryptocurrency networks more valuable in the long term."
222,96,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/20/voyager-seeks-to-unwind-alameda-loan/,Crypto Lender Voyager Digital Seeks to ‘Unwind’ $200M Loan to Alameda Research,"Alameda, a firm run by FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, had said it is ""happy to return"" the loan to the firm that's now in bankruptcy.",2022-09-20,"Voyager Digital, an insolvent crypto lender that is auctioning off its assets, has asked a federal bankruptcy court in New York for permission to “unwind” a $200 million loan it made to trading firm Alameda Research, according to a court filing.
In exchange for repaying the loan, Alameda would receive $160 million back in its pledged collateral. The loan, which was made in September of last year, is denominated largely in bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and USD Coin (USDC).
Alameda was founded by Sam Bankman-Fried, the billionaire crypto entrepreneur who also founded FTX, a crypto exchange. FTX has its own link to Voyager. Last week, CoinDesk reported that it's in the lead to purchase Voyager's assets through an auction taking place in its bankruptcy case.
In July, Alameda tweeted that it's ""happy to return the Voyager loan and get our collateral back whenever works for Voyager.""
Alameda Ventures, a firm that is separate from Alameda Research but that is also controlled by Bankman-Fried, has also loaned $200 million in cash and USDC as well as 15,000 BTC to Voyager in order to “mitigate current market conditions.” Alameda Ventures is a Voyager shareholder.
Changpeng Zhao, CEO of Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, has previously tweeted that the complex relationship between all of the firms is ""hard to follow."" Binance has also tried to buy Voyager, CoinDesk has reported.
The court filing also requests that both parties' cryptocurrency wallet addresses remain confidential.
Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July after it faced a swarm of requests by customers to withdraw their funds as cryptocurrency prices spiraled down in the aftermath of the collapse of Terra network's UST stablecoin and related LUNA token.
Read more: Voyager Kept Taking Buy Orders After Freezing Crypto Transfers; Now, This Trader Is Stuck"
223,20,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/20/terra-co-founder-do-kwons-legal-troubles-unlikely-to-affect-broader-crypto-markets-analysts-say/,"Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon’s Legal Troubles Unlikely to Affect Broader Crypto Markets, Analysts Say","However, some traders see increased volatility for tokens related to Kwon in the coming days.",2022-09-20,"A name on the Interpol's wanted list and a South Korean police alert for Terra co-founder Do Kwon’s whereabouts are unlikely to cause havoc to the broader crypto markets, two markets observers told CoinDesk on Tuesday.
Kwon's arrest warrant puts pressure on an already intensive regulatory debate about market conduct, consumer protection and financial stability risks associated with crypto markets. Kwon’s current location is unknown and the Singapore Police Force confirmed to the press that Kwon was no longer in the city-state, where he resided until at least May.
In the weeks following Terra’s implosion in May, prices of its LUNA and UST tokens dropped over 99.7%. At the same time, decentralized finance applications built on the network lost some $28 billion in market value – making the entire ordeal one of the single-largest capital destructive event in the history of cryptocurrencies.
Some are, however, playing down the impact of Kwon’s legal troubles on broader crypto markets.
“In my opinion, Terra doesn’t present systemic risks to the broader crypto markets, especially with regard to investments in the sector,” Victor Young, software architect at blockchain network Analog, told CoinDesk, pointing to the overall perception of cryptocurrencies remaining positive among investors.
However, Young added that regulators and policymakers were increasingly seeing the scale of the losses in the industry as “a major warning sign” of possible future worst-case scenarios.
Young added that the quick formation of Terra 2.0 – a separate blockchain built to regain investors’ trust – showed how fast developments in the crypto markets take place. “It (Terra 2.0) already attracted a syndicate of investors and users who are likely to suffer because of such a move, which demonstrated that regulators and policymakers are failing to keep pace with the speed of innovation,” he said.
Ajay Dhingra, head of research and analytics at crypto exchange Unizen, likened Terra’s fall to a major bank affected during the 2008 recession.
""The Terra collapse is somewhat similar to the Lehman Brothers meltdown in the Great Financial Crisis of 2008,” Dhingra told CoinDesk in a Telegram message. “The arrest warrant will cause an extreme spike in the LUNA's volatility, as investigators piece together the most significant event of 2022.""
LUNA (the revamped token associated with the new Terra blockchain) and luna classic (the original blockchain's renamed token), have been two of the most-volatile tokens in the past few months. LUNC fell from an April high of $119 to $0.00000099 in mid-May, and has since risen a staggering 29,000%. Its value has doubled in the past month – even as the broader market did not show similar growth.
LUNA, on the other hand, gained 200% in a speculative rally over a few days last week following the release of a fundamental catalyst. Those gains were reversed almost as immediately as the rise, and now trading at levels last seen in August."
224,9,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/26/luna-classic-remnant-of-terra-collapse-jumps-60-as-binance-unveils-burn-scheme/,"Luna Classic, Remnant of Terra Collapse, Jumps 60% as Binance Unveils Burn Scheme","The crypto exchange’s new measure aims to reduce the hyperinflated LUNC token’s supply, but it is unlikely to have the desired effect that traders hope for.",2022-09-26,"Luna classic (LUNC), the remnant token of the failed Terra blockchain prior to its reboot, surged on Monday after Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange, unveiled a scheme to reduce the supply of the token.
The LUNC price jumped as much as 60% on the news, reaching as high as $0.00032, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko. The token was changing hands at around $0.00029 at press time.
The sudden rally caught many traders by surprise, especially because many of them had bet that the LUNC price would fall on the news that Interpol had issued a “red notice” for Terra’s founder, Do Kwon. Some $1.5 million of short positions have been liquidated during the day, the highest in at least three months, according to Coinglass.
The Terra ecosystem’s collapse in May was one of the most dramatic implosions in the crypto market. It wiped out $60 billion in market value and caused some crypto firms to become insolvent. Earlier this month, South Korean authorities issued an arrest warrant for Kwon on charges of fraud.
Many developers who were building applications on the original-and-now-abandoned blockchain have moved over to the newly rebooted Terra blockchain or to other networks like Polygon or Kadena that are seen as having more staying power. At least one analyst has suggested that LUNC is now a “meme coin,” with few use cases beyond providing traders with speculation and quick profits (or losses).
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
Earlier this month, the LUNC token surged in anticipation of a community-approved plan to reduce the token’s hyperinflated supply.
The so-called “supply burn plan” aims to destroy – burn in crypto terms – 1.2% of every LUNC transaction on the blockchain. The mechanism doesn't apply to buying and selling tokens on exchanges, but some crypto exchanges such as MEXC voluntarily decided to adopt the supply reduction mechanism.
The burn scheme Binance just announced, however, may have less of an impact than many traders hope.
According to a statement, the crypto exchange will destroy the equivalent of the trading fees when a trader sells or buys LUNC. Traders on Binance may opt for applying the 1.2% “burn fee” voluntarily. Given that trading fees on Binance range from 0.1% to as low as 0.02% for large traders, the burn rate is just a fraction of the 1.2% transaction burn rate.
Traders who move the most volume on the exchange, such as market makers, are unlikely to voluntarily choose the 1.2% fees, crypto trader Ogle pointed out in a Twitter post. Binance’s burn scheme “is almost totally useless to LUNC folks, but they don’t realize it,” he told CoinDesk."
225,157,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/09/27/us-fed-chair-powell-urges-caution-on-regulating-defi/,US Fed Chair Powell Urges Caution on Regulating DeFi,Some policymakers are keen to press new rules on the decentralized finance sector following the collapse of Do Kwon's terraUSD stablecoin.,2022-09-27,"Regulation of decentralized finance (DeFi) needs to be done “carefully and thoughtfully” given its limited impact on the real economy, U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said at an event hosted by the French central bank on Tuesday.
His remarks appear to urge some caution on those policymakers keen to rush into imposing rules in the wake of recent scandals exposed by the recent crypto crash, such as the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) algorithmic stablecoin, which used various mechanisms to help the coin maintain its peg.
“The DeFi winter … didn’t have significant effects on the banking system and broader financial stability” due to the lack of links between them, Powell told a panel.
“I think it demonstrates the weaknesses and the work that needs to be done around regulation, carefully and thoughtfully, and gives us a little bit of time,” he said. He added that it is central bankers who, as inflation risks began to materialize, may have inadvertently triggered the collapse of many DeFi initiatives.
“The monetary policy normalization that we’re seeing all over the world, all it did was reveal … significant structural issues in the DeFi system, and conflicts of interest,” Powell said. “All of those things have been revealed now that the tide has gone out.”
Powell said he favored applying the rules of conventional finance to DeFi, citing the mantra “same risks, same regulation” – but also to novel features such as replacing intermediaries with automated code, decentralized governance, and the use of unhosted crypto wallets to facilitate money laundering.
Powell also suggested he was in no rush to introduce a central bank digital currency, a digital form of public money which is under consideration in numerous jurisdictions across the world.
“We have not decided to proceed and we don't see ourselves as making that decision for some time,” Powell said, with the move requiring approval from both Congress and the executive branch. “We're evaluating both the policy issues and the technology issues and we're doing that with a very broad scope.”
His remarks follow a speech given by the European Commission’s Mairead McGuinness, who called for international coordination on applying new rules to both cryptocurrencies and DeFi.
“Decentralized finance ... challenges some of the fundamental aspects of the financial system as it currently exists,” said McGuinness, responsible for financial services at the EU’s executive arm. “The [European] Commission is monitoring the developments and risks in this fast-moving area very closely.”
Other central bankers were more frank about their skepticism.
“I don't see any redeeming value” in cryptocurrencies, said the Singapore Monetary Authority’s Ravi Menon. “Their time for reckoning has come.”
The European Central Bank’s Christine Lagarde said the collapse of terraUSD stablecoin – whose founder, Do Kwon, now appears to be the subject of an Interpol Red notice – showed the need to heap new rules on the sector.
Since emerging from the libertarian dream pushed by Bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto, crypto has “been abused,” Lagarde said. “Mr. Do Kwon, who is on the run, is the other side of that enigmatic coin, which warrants the regulation that has been advocated by both Jay and Ravi.”
Kwon has denied he is on the run in a tweet sent last week, saying he was cooperating with the authorities."
226,236,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/28/terraform-labs-calls-korean-authorities-arrest-warrant-for-do-kwon-overreach-report/,Terraform Labs Calls S. Korean Authorities’ Arrest Warrant for Do Kwon Overreach: Report,"A Terraform spokesperson claimed its luna cryptocurrency wasn’t a security, meaning it wasn’t covered by South Korea’s capital markets law.",2022-09-28,"Terraform Labs said South Korean prosecutors overextended their authority in seeking a warrant for the arrest of CEO Do Kwon, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal, citing a statement sent by Terraform.
A Terraform spokesperson claimed that its luna cryptocurrency wasn’t a security, meaning it wasn’t covered by South Korea’s capital markets law.
“We believe that this case has become highly politicized, and that the actions of the Korean prosecutors demonstrate unfairness and a failure to uphold basic rights guaranteed under Korean law,” the spokesman said.
Luna and its associated algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD collapsed in value in May, causing thousands of investors to lose billions of dollars.
Earlier this week, Interpol reportedly issued an international arrest request known as a red notice for Kwon. The spokesman who wrote to the Wall Street Journal declined to identify Kwon's location, citing ""ongoing physical security risks to him and his family"" and noting there have been attempts to break into his residences in South Korea and Singapore.
Kwon has yet to issue a statement via Twitter, but in prior tweets he has maintained that Terraform Labs is defending itself in multiple jurisdictions.
Prosecutors in South Korea have previously said that Kwon was ""obviously on the run"" and not cooperating with investigators.
UPDATE (Sept. 28, 2022 20:30 UTC): Added statements from Terraform spokesperson about Kwon's location."
227,41,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/09/28/native-usdc-on-cosmos-to-fill-vacuum-left-by-terras-ust-stablecoin/,Native USDC on Cosmos to Fill Vacuum Left by Terra’s UST Stablecoin,Collateralized USDC is assuming a role formerly held by Terra’s algorithmic UST stablecoin – raising questions as to whether decentralized finance can mature with decentralized money at its core.,2022-09-28,"The collapse of Terra in May left a vacuum in the Cosmos ecosystem, where Terra’s UST stablecoin – which was algorithmically pegged to the U.S. dollar – was used heavily across Cosmos’ interconnected family of blockchains. Now, with the help of the stablecoin issuer Circle, Cosmos is replacing code with collateral.
Circle said on Wednesday that it plans to launch its USD coin (USDC) stablecoin – the second-largest dollar-backed stablecoin by market capitalization – natively on Cosmos in early 2023. The announcement came alongside news that Circle would begin issuing USDC natively on four other ecosystems in addition to Cosmos.
Cosmos’s fledgling decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem previously relied on the promise of Do Kwon’s digital dollar, and the algorithm that supposedly backed it, to build up its on-chain lending, borrowing and exchange markets. When UST came crashing down, its role was assumed by various different stable currencies – the most popular being wrapped USDC, a synthetic version of the centralized USDC stablecoin issued on the Ethereum blockchain – but these alternatives didn’t offer the same security to users that a natively issued stablecoin could.
Read more: What Is a Stablecoin?
There’s currently $18 million wrapped USDC sitting in liquidity pools on the Osmosis blockchain, which is home to the Cosmos ecosystem’s largest decentralized exchange.
Each wrapped USDC token was initially minted on Ethereum to represent $1 in Circle’s treasury. Moving those tokens from Ethereum to Cosmos today means using a cross-chain bridge – a kind of technology that locks up tokens on one chain and reissues them on another.
“When it’s wrapped tokens, you're ultimately trusting the security of the bridge and the security of that intermediary,” Jelena Djuric, ecosystem lead at Cosmos research and development shop Informal Systems, told CoinDesk. “It's gone through all of these hoops to get to this wrapped point.”
Cross-chain bridges have fallen prey to numerous multi-million dollar hacks – the most recent being the $190 million Nomad bridge attack, which rendered some wrapped tokens on Cosmos and other ecosystems virtually useless.
Starting in early 2023, Circle will begin minting a version of its dollar-backed currency directly onto its own Cosmos blockchain.
From there, other Cosmos chains, like Osmosis and the upcoming dYdX chain, will be able to use USDC sans bridge, so long as they enable Cosmos’s inter-blockchain communication protocol (IBC) – software that allows independent Cosmos chains to send assets back and forth.
The news this past June that dYdX, one of the largest crypto exchanges, would be moving to a standalone Cosmos blockchain was evidence that Cosmos – and its vision for interoperable, “sovereign” app-chains – is beginning to breach the mainstream. But as the Cosmos ecosystem matures, its embrace of fully collateralized stablecoins suggests it is no longer aiming to do so with fully decentralized money at its core.
DYdX’s move from Ethereum to Cosmos may have even played some role in expediting Circle’s Cosmos expansion plans.
“[DYdX] are actually the largest consumer of USDC in the crypto market, because all of their perpetual swaps or future contracts are actually held up in USDC until that contract is triggered,” explained Djuric. “I think [dYdX] just trusted that because there's so much organic demand for their platform and thus, by extension, demand for USDC, [USDC issuance] was just like a natural kind of thing that they knew they would have to focus on.”
CORRECTION (Sept. 28, 19:42 UTC): The USDC token will be issued onto its own Cosmos-based blockchain. It will not be issued directly onto the Cosmos Hub blockchain, as originally stated."
228,5,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/03/luna-classic-remnant-of-terra-collapse-drops-after-underwhelming-binance-burn-mechanism-data/,"Luna Classic, Remnant of Terra Collapse, Drops After Underwhelming Binance Burn Mechanism Data","Binance’s scheme destroyed only 0.08% of LUNC’s bloated supply, too minuscule to have a lasting impact on the hyperinflated token.",2022-10-03,"The crypto exchange Binance’s planned “burn” of luna classic (LUNC) – the remnant cryptocurrency of the failed blockchain project Terra prior to its reboot – was supposed to boost the price. At least, that was the speculation of many crypto traders.
But the impact turned out to be underwhelming.
Since the mechanism was implemented a week ago, Binance destroyed – “burned” in crypto terms, or a reduction in the outstanding supply – $1.8 million worth of LUNC, based on a tweet Monday by Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao. That amount represents only 0.08% of the total supply of the token, too minuscule to make any measurable impact on the tokens' hyperinflated supply.
The price of LUNC dropped 12% in the last 24 hours, to $0.0003037, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko.
LUNC is the native token of the Terra Classic blockchain, which imploded this May, wiping out $60 billion in market value; the project’s algorithmic stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar, and LUNC, the token that was supposed to be its stabilizer, fell into hyperinflation. While most crypto developers and projects left the blockchain, some community members attempted to bring new life to the network by introducing a scheme that reduces the bloated supply of the token.
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
LUNC almost doubled its price last week after Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume, unveiled its own supply-reduction scheme, CoinDesk reported last week. The crypto exchange implemented a mechanism that destroys the same amount of coins as the fees it collects from trading LUNC.
LUNC became the third-most traded asset on Binance with trading volume after bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), according to data by CoinMarketCap.
The burn was calculated based on the token’s trading volume between Sept. 21 and Oct. 1. So Binance took 5.6 billion tokens out of circulation by sending them to a “burn” address, according to blockchain data.
Given that there are more than 6.8 trillion tokens in circulation, the burn rate works out to a meager 0.08% of the total supply – extrapolating to only a few percentage points of reduction on an annualized basis.
Binance's scheme “is meaningless in its direct impact,” a crypto trader, who goes by the pseudonym of Ogle, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat, adding, “At this rate, assuming the volume continued to be as high as now (which I doubt), it would take 15 years to get to the total burn goal.”"
229,26,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/04/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-climbs-back-past-195k-amid-fresh-hopes-for-a-fed-retreat-binances-failed-plan-to-boost-the-price-of-luna-classic/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Climbs Back Past $19.5K Amid Fresh Hopes for a Fed Retreat; Binance's Failed Plan to Boost the Price of Luna Classic,The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization and ether both spent much of Monday in the green.,2022-10-04,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin climbs past $19.5K in a good day for cryptos.
Insights: Binance's plan to burn a small amount of LUNC’s bloated supply failed to have a lasting impact on the hyperinflated token.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,566 +2.5%
● Ether (ETH): $1,322 +3.0%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $963 +2.6%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,678.43 +2.6%
● Gold: $1,707 per troy ounce +2.7%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.65% −0.2
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Climb Amid Renewed Hopes for a Fed Retreat
By James Rubin
Crypto investors who have appreciated bad, economic news more than good in recent months were feeling chipper on Monday as the latest manufacturing indicators arrived cooler than expected.
Bitcoin was recently trading over $19,550, up more than 2% over the past 24 hours, amid a surprising monthly decline in the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index, which measures factory activity. The drop didn't send asset prices soaring, but it offered faint hope that the economy was slowing meaningfully, inflation would soon be waning, and the U.S. central bank would be able to ratchet back its recent monetary hawkishness. Markets have been desperate for signs of improvement in the inflation battle that Federal Reserve officials see as key to long-range economic stability.
Ether was recently changing hands at just above $1,300, up roughly 3% from a day earlier, same time. Most other major altcoins in market value were trading higher, with ATOM and MATIC both rising more than 5%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures performance across a basket of cryptocurrencies, increased by over 2.5%.
Equity markets enjoyed a rare upswing with the tech-focused Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) jumping 2.3%, 2.6% and 2.7%, respectively. The increases followed a September of almost unbroken declines as investors continued to fret about rising prices and the prospect of a harsh recession.
Meanwhile, yields on 10-year U.S. Treasurys declined, continuing their path of the past few days after rising to 15-year highs late last month. Yields and asset prices usually travel in opposite directions. The decline may also reflect a surge in investor confidence that Fed policies are working.
Markets remained jittery about Credit Suisse as the investment banking giant tried to allay fears about its financial health, although the company's share price wound up only falling by about 1% on Monday. In Florida, the toll from Hurricane Ian continued to rise, although the cost in repairs and lost economic growth remains unclear.
In an email to CoinDesk, Jon Campagna, partner and head of trading and capital markets at crypto investment firm CoinFund, noted optimistically that bitcoin and cryptos in general have struggled in September but had their best performance in the last quarter of the year with an average quarterly return of more than 100%. ""It remains to be seen if history can repeat itself for Q4 the way it did for the month of September,"" he wrote.
And Anastasia Amoroso, chief investment strategist at financial tech firm iCapital, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that bitcoin's price was ""a lot closer to the bottom than we have been, although she added that bitcoin was unlikely to escape the $19,000 to $20,000 band that it has been occupying ""until and unless the Fed pivots.""
""Until then, I think, unfortunately, we're still going to be kept around these current levels,"" she said.
Binance's Failed Scheme to Boost Luna Classic's Price
By Krisztian Sandor
The crypto exchange Binance’s planned “burn” of luna classic (LUNC) – the remnant cryptocurrency of the failed blockchain project Terra prior to its reboot – was supposed to boost the price. At least, that was the speculation of many crypto traders.
But the impact turned out to be underwhelming.
Since the mechanism was implemented a week ago, Binance destroyed – “burned” in crypto terms, or a reduction in the outstanding supply – $1.8 million worth of LUNC, based on a tweet Monday by Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao. That amount represents only 0.08% of the total supply of the token, too minuscule to make any measurable impact on the tokens' hyperinflated supply.
The price of LUNC dropped 12% in the last 24 hours, to $0.0003037, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko.
LUNC is the native token of the Terra Classic blockchain, which imploded this May, wiping out $60 billion in market value; the project’s algorithmic stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar, and LUNC, the token that was supposed to be its stabilizer, fell into hyperinflation. While most crypto developers and projects left the blockchain, some community members attempted to bring new life to the network by introducing a scheme that reduces the bloated supply of the token.
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
LUNC almost doubled its price last week after Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume, unveiled its own supply-reduction scheme, CoinDesk reported last week. The crypto exchange implemented a mechanism that destroys the same amount of coins as the fees it collects from trading LUNC.
LUNC became the third-most traded asset on Binance with trading volume after bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), according to data by CoinMarketCap.
The burn was calculated based on the token’s trading volume between Sept. 21 and Oct. 1. So Binance took 5.6 billion tokens out of circulation by sending them to a “burn” address, according to blockchain data.
Given that there are more than 6.8 trillion tokens in circulation, the burn rate works out to a meager 0.08% of the total supply – extrapolating to only a few percentage points of reduction on an annualized basis.
Binance's scheme “is meaningless in its direct impact,” a crypto trader who goes by the pseudonym of Ogle, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat.
“At this rate, assuming the volume continued to be as high as now (which I doubt), it would take 15 years to get to the total burn goal.”
MetaBeat Conference (San Francisco)
11:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(3:30 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia rate statement
9 .m. H1HKT/SGT(1 p.m. UTC): Speech by Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John C. Williams
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
SEC Charges Kim Kardashian for Promoting EthereumMax; Bitcoin Holds Above $19K
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian paid $1.26 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to settle charges relating to her promotion of ethereumMax. Plus, what do analysts expect from the crypto markets this month? ""First Mover"" chatted with Anastasia Amoroso, iCapital chief investment strategist. And Matthew Price discusses Binance's new training program for law enforcement.
Kim Kardashian Pays $1.26M Fine to SEC for Promoting EthereumMax Without Disclosing Reimbursement: The reality TV star also agreed not to tout any cryptocurrencies for three years.
Crypto Exchange Coinbase Fixes Technical Problem That Temporarily Halted Payments and Withdrawals From US Bank Accounts: The exchange says the issue was identified and a solution implemented.
Ex-CEO of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Celsius Withdrew $10M Weeks Before Company Froze Customer Accounts: Report: Alex Mashinsky resigned as CEO on Sept. 27; the company filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in mid July.
Deglobalization Is Happening. Crypto Is Part of the Answer: The rise of a common global financial infrastructure will continue as the international landscape becomes even more fragmented by war and disaster.
Citi Says Decentralized Crypto Exchanges Are Gaining Market Share From Centralized Peers: Increased crypto regulation could drive users to decentralized platforms, the bank said."
230,238,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/07/lfg-slow-walks-plan-to-repay-small-time-terra-holders-citing-legal-threats/,"LFG Slow-Walks Plan to Repay Small-Time Terra Holders, Citing Legal Threats",The Luna Foundation Guard still has about $100 million in reserves that it has pledged as compensation.,2022-10-07,"An effort to compensate Terra owners with assets from Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), which spent billions of dollars fruitlessly defending the failed stablecoin’s peg, is frozen in place due to the threat of litigation, LFG tweeted Friday.
“Our goal is to distribute LFG’s remaining assets to those impacted by the depeg, smallest holders first,” LFG tweeted. “Unfortunately, due to ongoing and threatened litigation, distribution is not possible at this time. While these matters are outstanding, there can be no timeline established for resolution.”
According to figures self-reported from LFG, the foundation’s reserve’s currently total around $100 million. That’s a drop in the bucket of the estimated $60 billion in value wiped out by the collapse of the Terra ecosystem.
Although LFG cited legal reasons for pausing its treasury distribution plans, Friday's statement comes after reports that South Korean authorities had frozen nearly $40 million worth of blockchain funds tied to LFG. ""I don't know whose funds they've frozen, but good for them, hope they use it for good,"" Terra founder Do Kwon tweeted in response.
LFG was established by Terra creators Terraform Labs in January with a mandate to protect the $1 peg of terraUSD (UST), Terra's ill-fated algorithmic stablecoin. LFG's treasury was loaded with bitcoin and other currencies totaling close to $4 billion, but it “loaned” virtually all of those funds to over-the-counter trading firms in May in a failed bid to rescue UST as it was crashing. To whom and how those funds were distributed remains unclear.
LFG previously had a five-person governance council but they’ve all left in the wake of the collapse. Now, former LFG council members Jose Macedo and Remi Tetot tell CoinDesk that the board only formally consists of Do Kwon and Terraform Labs head researcher Nicholas Platias.
UPDATE (Oct. 7, 2022 17:03 UTC): Adds context on LFG council.
UPDATE (Oct. 7, 17:34 UTC): Adds context on LFG's mandate and October's LFG-linked asset freeze."
231,237,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/07/global-crypto-standards-due-next-week-could-test-regulators-tech-mantra/,Global Crypto Standards Due Next Week Could Test Regulators’ Tech Mantra,Subtitle not found,2022-10-07,"Next week could prove a turning point in the global regulation of crypto finance – and ministers from the world’s 20 biggest economies will potentially confront the system change posed by decentralized finance (DeFi).
The Financial Stability Board (FSB), a global watchdog, will set out plans for regulating crypto markets by the middle of next week – and it may have to consider whether to carry on sharpening the tools it already has in its toolbox or go in a whole new direction to rein in the ecosystem of decentralized finance (DeFi).
The FSB has an influential role in setting international norms – it wrote the current rulebook for financial markets in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Back in July it set out its crypto agenda, in the form of two consultations which it wants to present to G20 finance ministers ahead of a meeting next Wednesday and Thursday in Washington.
Many markets suffer from volatility – but the FSB is really worried about crypto instability filtering through to up-end the conventional financial system. That could happen, for example, if the instability undermines general investor confidence, if it affects short-term financing markets like money-market funds or if people started widely using a stablecoin to pay for everyday goods.
It’ll revisit its existing norms on stablecoins – crypto assets that seek to maintain their value with respect to fiat currency – which it first issued back in October 2020. FSB will also submit another draft report for “promoting international consistency of regulatory and supervisory approaches to other crypto-assets and crypto-asset markets” – something that could extend much further into the Web3 ecosystem.
The FSB’s existing norms on stablecoins are high-level, urging countries to ensure major stablecoins are included within regulatory oversight – and even those recommendations have seen patchy take-up.
Read more: Global Financial Watchdog FSB to Propose Crypto Regulations in October
But there are a number of reasons to think this time round the standards will be both tougher – and better heeded.
The market has changed since 2020, when the main threat was the incursion of the Big Tech player then known as Facebook (now Meta), via its backing for the stablecoin it was developing, then known as libra (later diem, subsequently scuttled). This time real-life assets like tether (USDT) have become much bigger. They haven’t yet taken over the financial system, as some worried Facebook might do, but they pose risks of their own. The dramatic collapse of stablecoin terraUSD earlier this year vindicated many of the things the FSB had been seeking, such as the need to have a decent stabilization mechanism and keep proper reserves.
That suggests the FSB might not just review its stablecoin rules, but rewrite them.
Plus the FSB’s two most muscular members, the U.S and the EU, are now starting to act. They will likely want others to follow suit – to avoid crypto companies, as they see it, stealing their business by offshoring to less-regulated climes. (China, the G20’s other major economy, may well simply sit this one out, having more or less opted not to control crypto but to ban it.)
In the U.S., regulators have spent recent weeks issuing their own series of reports – requested by President Joe Biden – outlining how they intend to approach crypto. The Financial Stability Oversight Council this week cited the urgent need for stablecoin oversight and a regulator for non-security tokens like bitcoin (BTC). Clear guidance from the FSB could give a nudge to Congress, currently too bogged down by the end of the current legislative session and midterm elections to push on with legislation.
The EU, finalizing its own Markets in Crypto Assets regulation, MiCA, is now looking to ensure that others are keeping up. Among the first public remarks she made after a deal was struck on MiCA back in June, the European Commission's financial-services chief, Mairead McGuinness, told CoinDesk she was hoping for greater international cooperation on crypto.
The EU lawmaker who led talks on the regulation, Stefan Berger, appears to agree with her.
“The EU will become a global standard-setter,” thanks to MiCA, Berger tweeted on Wednesday, suggesting he’d seen considerable interest in the law from people in the U.S. on his recent trip there.
Policymakers are certainly hyping what the FSB could deliver.
“In 2023, we will have a global, consistent and comprehensive framework to tackle crypto-assets,” French central bank Governor François Villeroy de Galhau said in a speech given in September, referring to the forthcoming norms.
And that framework could prove a boon to some in the industry. Take the case of Ripple, which is currently attempting to fight against a legal case mounted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleging the XRP cryptocurrency is a security that should have been federally registered by Ripple.
That kind of regulatory uncertainty offers companies an unwelcome and unhelpful surprise, Ripple’s head of policy, Sue Friedman, told CoinDesk, and an international framework could help.
“We certainly don't want to create an ecosystem where an asset is considered a non-security in one jurisdiction but is blocked as a security in another,” Friedman said in an online interview.
“I don't think that they [the FSB] are going to go so far as to actually say what they consider a security versus what is not,” she added. “I fully expect a call for higher standards and international coordination, and we believe it makes a lot of sense.”
Yet it’s not immediately clear how the FSB will do that – thanks, in part, to the emergence of transformative technologies like DeFi .
Existing crypto laws largely extend existing financial rules, under the mantra of “same activity, same risk, same regulation.” That means stablecoin issuers have to prudently manage assets, and crypto wallet providers check the identity of their customers, just as banks must.
The aim of regulation should be “holding crypto assets, including stablecoins, to the same standards as the rest of the financial system,” the group of the world’s seven largest developed democracies said in May, apparently supporting a continuation of that steady-as-she-goes approach.
Yet piling obligations on regulated intermediaries may not be possible if there is no single entity responsible – say, because lending is done by a software protocol rather than a bank. The traditional approach may also miss the point given the novel – and inherently cross-border – risks involved in DeFi.
Supervisors in traditional finance obsessively monitor the balance sheets of huge banking or insurance behemoths. In DeFi, the individual entities involved may be much smaller, and the collapse of any one is unlikely to bring down the financial system – yet there are other threats, like that a single software bug could spiral out of control.
Read more: International Regulators Struggle With How to Oversee DeFi
That was certainly the conclusion of the Financial Stability Institute's Fernando Restoy back in September, when he suggested a wholescale rethink to deal with DeFi. His argument has since been echoed by John Berrigan, the Brussels official who runs the European Commission’s financial-services department.
“The intermediary in decentralized finance may not be something that you can regulate via behavioral incentives,” Berrigan said in an interview published by the commission Sept. 30. “It is a huge challenge and it will probably require some reflection – not just on the procedures for how we regulate, but on the essence of the regulations.”
Not everyone is so convinced there’s anything truly transformational about DeFi. Decentralization is often an “illusion” because consensus mechanisms often still involve a concentration of power, and there’s normally some kind of body in the middle on which regulatory obligations can be pinned, argued the Bank for International Settlements in December.
Faced with that skepticism, the FSB’s foray into DeFi seems likely, for the time being, to be tentative.
Jesse Hamilton contributed reporting.
UPDATE (Oct. 9, 2022, 07:00 UTC): corrects name of Ripple cryptocurrency"
232,43,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/10/back-to-square-one-circles-usdc-market-cap-drops-below-50b-for-first-time-since-terras-collapse/,Back to Square One? Circle's USDC Market Cap Drops Below $50B for First Time Since Terra's Collapse,USDC's utility has taken a hit in the wake of Binance's decision to consolidate order books and Circle's decision to freeze addresses associated with Tornado Cash.,2022-10-10,"Circle's dollar-pegged stablecoin USD coin (USDC) has returned to Earth after seeing impressive growth following the collapse of Terra in May.
The stablecoin's market value has dropped by $10 billion to $46 billion in three months, hitting the lowest since January, according to data source CoinGecko. The decline has more than reversed the rise from $48 billion to $56 billion seen after Terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST went bust, sparking redemptions in tether (USDT), the world's largest stablecoin.
USDC appears to have lost market share to rivals Binance USD (BUSD), the world's third-largest stablecoin and tether. Since early July, BUSD's market value has increased by 21% to $21.66 billion and tether's has gone up by 3% to $68.3 billion.
According to industry experts, several factors, including stability in USDT, Tornado Cash sanctions and Binance's recent decision to consolidate order books, are responsible for USDC's dwindling market capitalization.
""After Terra collapsed, there was a strong move to sell USDT and shift to quality, USDC, perpetuated by concerns that USDT was also heading to $0,"" Wes Hansen, director of trading and operations at Arca, said. ""However, once the fears of USDT collapse subsided, investors began returning to stablecoins with the best market depth, which is usually USDT on non-U.S. exchanges.""
Hansen added that investors concerned with U.S. regulators prefer USDT to USDC and could be moving back to USDT.
USDC's safe haven appeal stems from the transparency of its reserves and due to its issuance being regulated in accordance with U.S. state money transmission supervision. On the contrary, tether's reputation has been long marred by controversy surrounding the nature of its reserves.
Nevertheless, tether withstood the market's stress test following Terra's collapse, with the issuing company honoring redemptions worth billions of dollars. While the stablecoin's peg broke and the price fell as low as 92 cents on some exchanges in the aftermath of the Terra crash, the volatility was short-lived. The stablecoin averaged about 99 cents in June and regained a stable dollar peg in July.
Amey Dandawate, a research analyst at Delphi Digital, said the drop in USDC's market supply could be attributed to crypto exchange Binance's decision to remove the stablecoin as a tradable coin on its platform. With an average daily volume of $20 billion, Binance is the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange.
On Sept. 5, Binance announced that it would convert all investments in USDC, Pax dollar (USDP) and trueUSD (TUSD) into BUSD, suspending spot, future and margin trading in the three stablecoins. Since then, USDC's market cap has dropped by nearly $5 billion while BUSD's market value has risen by over $2 billion.
""Users can still deposit or withdraw these stablecoins, but they will be converted to BUSD for use on the exchange,"" Dandawate said in a note to clients. ""While combining different stablecoins into one enhances liquidity and capital efficiency for traders, it also helps Binance increase the usage of its native BUSD stablecoin over others.""
Lastly, Circle's decision to freeze USDC addresses associated with the blacklisted crypto mixer Tornado Cash may have contributed to USDC's market cap decline.
On Aug. 8, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned virtual currency mixer Tornado Cash, saying the application has been used to launder $7 billion worth of virtual currency since its inception in 2019.
Circle immediately froze over 75,000 USDC linked to the 44 Tornado Cash addresses in a tell-tale sign that other stablecoins like USDT, which remain non compliant, may be better at preserving investor privacy.
""About $4 billion in USDC left the Ethereum ecosystem since the Tornado cash sanctions announced on Aug. 8, and USDC market share on Ethereum has declined by roughly 3%,"" Dustin Teander, research analyst at Messari, told CoinDesk in an email.
However, all is not lost for USDC, which remains a dominant force in decentralized finance (DeFi).
""BUSD has seldom been used in DeFi and is not near the top 10 pools of Curve, Uniswap, Aave, etc. USDC usage, however, remains strong. Four of the top five Uniswap pools contain USDC,"" Teander said. ""Over the last seven days, USDC pools, compared, have accounted for over 50% of the swaps, 77% of the volume, and 63% of the fees generated of the top Uniswap [version] 3 pools.""
And while tether seems to have gained ground, its market cap remains well below the high of $89 billion seen ahead of Terra's crash and concerns about its reserves linger."
233,93,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/10/crypto-investment-firm-blockwater-technologies-defaults-on-defi-loan/,Crypto Investment Firm Blockwater Technologies Defaults on DeFi Loan,"The South Korea-based crypto investment firm failed to make a payment on a $3.4 million loan to TrueFi, a decentralized lending protocol.",2022-10-10,"South Korean blockchain investment firm Blockwater Technologies defaulted on a loan from TrueFi, a decentralized lending protocol, TrueFi said in a statement Sunday.
According to the statement, TrueFi issued a “notice of default” to Blockwater on Oct. 6 after it failed payment on a $3.4 million loan in Binance USD (BUSD) stablecoin.
Blockwater’s default seems to be the latest example of the crypto industry’s insolvency crisis. This year’s dramatic downturn of crypto markets, exacerbated by the implosion of the Terra blockchain, has led to the bankruptcy of multiple high-profile crypto firms, such as hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC), crypto lender Celsius Network, digital asset broker Voyager Digital and crypto-mining data center operator Compute North.
Blockwater’s default on its debt came after TrueFi and Blockwater restructured the loan and extended the payment period in August. Blockwater managed to repay $654,000 of its outstanding debt after the restructuring efforts, but eventually missed payment. The remaining debt amounts to almost $3 million.
TrueFi determined that “a potential court-supervised administrative proceeding would lead to a better outcome for stakeholders given the complexity around the sudden insolvency,” according to the lending protocol’s statement.
“While we always prefer to pursue an out-of-court solution with distressed borrowers, in some instances an administrative proceeding is the best option in preserving value for stakeholders,” Roshan Dharia, head of lending at ArchBlock, which manages relationships between lenders and borrowers on the TrueFi protocol, told CoinDesk.
TrueFi remained in “active discussion” with Blockwater, and said that Blockwater’s insolvency does not affect the protocol’s other lending pools, per the statement."
234,231,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/10/stablecoins-role-in-cutting-international-payment-costs-probed-by-payments-watchdog/,Stablecoins’ Role in Cutting International Payment Costs Probed by Payments Watchdog,"The Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures wants to know if stablecoins can fulfil their promise of cheaper, quicker transactions, according to a new Financial Stability Board report.",2022-10-10,"Global payment standard setters want to slash the cost of sending money abroad – and on Monday, an intergovernmental group announced it will be looking at whether stablecoins can help.
The Committee on Payment and Market Infrastructures, an international body that sets norms for the sector, has said that further in the coming months it wants to probe the case for cryptos that seek to maintain value against fiat, according to a report published by the Financial Stability Board, an international entity tasked with monitoring the global financial system supported by central banks and finance ministries worldwide.
The CPMI “is considering whether and how the use of well-designed and risk-managed SAs [stablecoin arrangements] could enhance cross-border payments by addressing existing frictions,” the FSB said, with outcomes to be finalized by the end of this year.
“As the stablecoin sector is evolving rapidly with potential to have an impact at global scale, close attention will be required around risk management,” the report added.
Read more: International Standard Setters Publish Guidance on Stablecoin Regulations
The FSB, supported by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and chaired by the Netherlands’ Central Bank President Klaas Knot, is shortly due to present plans to set the world’s crypto rulebook, including sharper norms for stablecoins, ahead of a Wednesday meeting of finance ministers.
The FSB said last year that it wanted credited cross-border payments to be possible within one hour, and with transaction costs of under 1%, by 2027, and is currently exploring a number of avenues for achieving this goal.
Proponents of stablecoins such as libra, later renamed diem and then abandoned, have cited the current high cost and uncertainty of making cross-border payments as a compelling case, for example helping migrant workers send remittances back home.
But others have been more skeptical, especially in the wake of the high-profile collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD earlier this year. An August report from the European Central Bank proved more skeptical, saying that bitcoin and stablecoins were among the worst options for cutting costs, citing concerns over the dominant market power of privately led solutions."
235,153,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/11/comprehensive-international-crypto-rules-proposed-by-influential-finance-watchdog/,'Comprehensive' International Crypto Rules Proposed by Influential Finance Watchdog,Financial Stability Board plans could see stablecoins forced to centralize and crypto conglomerates broken up.,2022-10-11,"Stablecoins could be forced to centralize issuance and major crypto platforms broken up under plans put forward by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Tuesday.
The Financial Stability Board, a watchdog agency and standard setter for the global financial system supported by central banks and finance ministries, wants to see a comprehensive international rulebook in the aftermath of recent crypto market turmoil, taking aim at conflicts of interest in multi-faceted operations and algorithmic stablecoins like the now-collapsed terraUSD.
“The current ‘crypto winter’ has reinforced our assessment of existing structural vulnerabilities in these markets,” Klaas Knot, the Dutch central banker who chairs the FSB, said in a letter to the finance ministers of the world’s 20 biggest economies.
He was referring to FSB concerns over liquidity mismatches, high leverage and inappropriate business models in the highly connected crypto ecosystem.
“This turmoil has once more underlined the need for a comprehensive approach to crypto-asset regulation,” Knot added, after a volatile year that saw the price of major assets like bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) tumble, and the total collapse of companies like crypto lender Celsius Network. Tuesday’s reports are a “major step” towards that framework, Knot added.
A report published for consultation by the FSB Tuesday calls for jurisdictions across the world to extend existing financial norms and develop new ones for novel crypto risks.
It puts off delving deeply into new areas like decentralized finance (DeFi), promising a fuller policy assessment next year, but warns that failure to disclose governance roles can prevent regulators from finding out who’s responsible in some supposedly decentralized structures.
The report said some crypto companies are already breaching the law by combining traditionally separate activities like trading, lending, custody and brokerage, and called on national authorities to step in and break them up if there are heightened risks or conflicts of interest.
Read more: Global Financial Watchdog FSB to Propose Crypto Regulations in October
“Various crypto-asset activities are often bundled together within a single entity, sometimes in non-compliance with existing regulations,” the report said. “Authorities should enforce their powers and use their tools as appropriate and in line with jurisdictional legal frameworks, including disaggregation and separation of certain functions.”
The FSB warns of extra risks when wallet providers offer services for stablecoins – cryptocurrencies which seek to maintain their value against conventional assets such as the U.S. dollar. Disruptions to a wallet service could allow for malicious transfers, potentially leading to a stampede from panicking customers, and there’s often no clarity on what happens if a provider goes bankrupt, the report said.
A separate report also published for consultation Tuesday seeks to tighten up international stablecoin rules, even though it says most industry players are already struggling to keep up with current norms dating back to 2020.
“Most existing stablecoin arrangements do not meet the FSB’s High-level Recommendations,” the report said, citing deficiencies across the board in areas such as governance, risk management, and regulatory disclosures.
Under new FSB plans, stablecoins that are usable in multiple jurisdictions could be forced to centralize governance, and wouldn’t be able to use automated algorithms to maintain value like the “flawed” terraUSD did.
“Authorities should require that GSC [global stablecoin] issuance be governed and operated by one or more identifiable and responsible legal entities or individuals,” the report said. “A GSC should not rely on arbitrage activities to maintain a stable value at all times and it should not derive its value from algorithms.”
That aims to address crucial errors in the design of terraUSD – which purported to maintain value being exchangeable with a companion token, luna. That crucially depends on having liquid trading, which is unlikely in cases where there is an abrupt collapse in confidence.
The FSB has no enforcement power, and will rely on peer pressure to avoid a scenario where crypto companies can pick and choose whichever jurisdiction offers the lightest regulatory load.
Consultations are open until mid-December, with the FSB aiming to finalize the recommendations by the middle of next year.
Read more: Global Crypto Standards Due Next Week Could Test Regulators’ Tech Mantra"
236,233,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/11/market-wrap-bitcoin-remains-in-a-quiet-place-ahead-of-fomc-minutes/,Market Wrap: Bitcoin Remains in a Quiet Place Ahead of FOMC Minutes,"The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization continues in a tight range, a little over $19,000.",2022-10-11,"Bitcoin and ether traded flat on Tuesday, continuing a theme of low volume and volatility in digital asset markets in recent weeks.
Bitcoin (BTC) trading volume fell below its 20-day moving average for the seventh consecutive day, and 10th of the last 11. Bitcoin’s price continued its recent decline, falling 0.45% over the past 24 hours. The drop was the sixth negative day out of the last seven. The average true range of BTC price movement has fallen 22% so far in October, an indication of decreasing volatility.
Ether (ETH) trading volume fell below its 20-day moving average for the 11th consecutive day. The price fell 0.66% and now sits below the psychologically important $1,300 mark. Echoing BTC, ETH’s price has stagnated in recent weeks and been largely range-bound since Sept 21.
In broader crypto markets, the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures the performance of a basket of cryptocurrencies, fell 0.90%. The top gainer on Tuesday was terraUSD, up 34% to 5 cents, while the top declining asset was quantstamp(QSP), down 22%. BinanceUSD (BUSD) was the top traded crypto asset on Tuesday.
Traditional financial markets were mixed, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) increasing 0.12%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite and S&P 500 fell 1.10%, and 0.65%, respectively.
Breadth measures in traditional finance imply continued selling pressure because 71% of stocks trading on the NYSE, Nasdaq and NYSE American (formerly AMEX) exchanges declined compared with 22% that traded higher. Market breadth measures the number of assets trading higher compared to the number of assets trading lower.
In commodities, crude oil traded lower as West Texas Intermediate oil declined 1.7% to fall below $90 per barrel. European Brent crude declined 1.6% to $94.61 per barrel. In metals, copper futures, often used as an indication of economic growth fell 0.03%. Traditional safe haven gold rose 0.14%.
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): 936.32 −1.7%
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,042 −1.0%
● Ether (ETH): $1,285 −1.7%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,588.84 −0.7%
● Gold: $1,673 per troy ounce +0.4%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.94% +0.05
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin traded flat again Tuesday as macroeconomic themes continued to weigh heavily on investors who are now waiting for the release of the minutes of the last Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Wednesday, and the latest Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation data on Thursday. Trading volume has been tepid.
Economic observers widely believe the CPI will tick slightly downward to 8.1% annually, although month over month they expect a 0.1% price increase. The FOMC’s next rate decision should reflect the Fed’s priority in taming inflation.
BTC continues to behave as though it’s a “mean reversion” trade, as prices toggle above and below its 20-day moving average before reversing course back to its mean.
Appearing more clearly on its hourly than daily chart, BTC’s price has tended to show above-average volume during hours when the price breaches the upper range of its Bollinger Bands before reversing course.
To the extent traders can execute a nimble mean reversion trading strategy, they are likely to find opportunity in this market. Traders looking to find a trending asset class won’t find as much, given current price behavior. Investors looking to establish a longer-term position while minimizing their cost basis may find positive news on-chain, but not without cause for concern.
Glassnode data shows that “whale” net volume to and from exchanges has been declining since Sept 16. Whales are investors holding at least 1,000 BTC.
Movement of coins off centralized exchanges is price supportive because those coins are likely being moved into cold storage. Movement of BTC to exchanges implies that coins are intended to be sold.
Glassnode data also indicates that the cost basis for whales since 2017 is approximately $15,800. BTC’s price has decreased 5% since Sept. 16. With the price now within 25% of the cost basis for large BTC holders, they have been moving BTC off exchanges.
While not necessarily a bullish catalyst, this trend provides insight into where sentiment lies for BTC holders with the most aggregate exposure.
A note of caution, however, can be gleaned from derivatives markets. Specifically, there has been an uptick in the open interest for puts at the $19,000 strike price. Additionally, the put/call ratio for BTC has increased, indicating that traders are purchasing additional downside protection.
Former CEO of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Celsius Cashes Out $960K in CEL, USDC, Data Shows: Alex Mashinsky, who resigned as Celsius’ CEO on Sept. 27, continued to move crypto out of wallets while withdrawals are suspended for customers. Read more here.
SEC Probing Bored Ape Creator Yuga Labs Over Unregistered Offerings, Bloomberg Reports: The key legal question at the center of the probe, according to Bloomberg, is whether non-fungible tokens (NFT) are securities. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at how some corporations are bringing crypto to the mainstream.
Google Partners With Coinbase to Accept Crypto Payments for Cloud Services: The tech giant will also use Coinbase's custody service, Coinbase Prime.
Bitcoin Options Traders, Burned by Last Month’s CPI Report, Now Seek Downside Protection: Investors seem worried the impending inflation report may inject renewed downside volatility in bitcoin and are preparing for the same.
Crypto Exchange Bittrex to Pay $30M in US Treasury Sanctions Settlement: Crypto exchange Bittrex will pay the U.S. Treasury Department’s sanctions and money laundering watchdogs $30 million to settle allegations it maintained a poor compliance program between 2014 and 2017.
WisdomTree’s Spot Bitcoin ETF Rejected by the SEC: It's the latest in a string of spot bitcoin ETF denials by the federal regulator.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements.
Edit October 11, 2022 21:02 UTC: Added Bitcoin/U.S. dollar hourly chart from TradingView"
237,234,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/13/uk-lawmaker-matt-hancock-doesnt-regret-pro-crypto-swerve/,UK Lawmaker Matt Hancock Doesn’t Regret Pro-Crypto Swerve,The former cabinet minister is pushing for the government to be more pro-innovation.,2022-10-13,"Matt Hancock hasn’t always backed the right horse – but he has no regrets about his support for crypto in spite of the recent market downturn, the British lawmaker told CoinDesk.
Hancock – who served as health minister during the COVID-19 pandemic during the Boris Johnson administration until he was caught in a lockdown-busting embrace with a female aide – swiveled to crypto advocacy around the beginning of this year.
A backbench member of Parliament from the ruling Conservative Party, Hancock is now one of the most high-profile crypto lobbyists in British politics – with an insight into the government’s thinking as it steers through crucial digital asset laws.
Hancock supported pro-crypto Finance Minister Rishi Sunak over eventual winner Liz Truss in the recent Conservative Party leadership contest. Hancock attempted to replace Theresa May as prime minister back in 2019, but pulled out of the contest that Johnson eventually won.
Despite 2022’s hiccups in crypto markets, Hancock, still a lawmaker, is no less convinced by the power of digital assets to improve financial services.
“There are endless killer applications that are coming into focus right now,” he told CoinDesk in an online interview – though he concedes that digital asset markets are more mature than the wider Web3 ecosystem.
“This is a massive revolution that's going to disrupt finance, in the same way that the digital revolution has disrupted music and retail and media – and nobody was explaining it,” he said.
Turmoil this year, including a fall in the price of major assets including bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), and the implosion of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD, have only made crypto easier to lobby for, he said.
“My takeout from the market noise of the last six months or so is that the fundamentals are strong,” Hancock said. “This isn't about bitcoin. This is about a disruption much deeper … giving people more control over how they manage their affairs.”
Read more: Johnson's Exit as British Prime Minister Leaves UK Crypto Ambitions on Hold
“When the market is going up, heads are turned by the easy returns,” he said. “There's a much more substantial case to be made when the market is tricky … it isn't just a ‘get-rich-quick’ scheme.”
Chief among people to influence is Kwasi Kwarteng, named finance minister by Truss on Sept. 6. Hancock admits Kwarteng has a lot on his plate; unfunded tax cuts the minister announced on Sept. 23 sent gilt and foreign exchange markets into a tailspin.
But with the new government focused on boosting growth, Hancock said he “fully expects” crypto to be the centerpiece of financial service reforms.
Kwarteng was “very, very positive” about crypto at a recent private meeting, Hancock said. “He gets the point of the disruptive power of digital assets and, crucially, that the U.K. has to be a natural home … I couldn't have been more pleased with the direction of travel.”
Competitive spirit adds fuel to the fire. The European Union, which the U.K. has left, is now finalizing its own crypto law known as MiCA; in Paris, President Emmanuel Macron is aggressively courting innovative firms such as Binance and crypto.com.
“There's nothing like a bit of Anglo-French rivalry to get British politicians on side,” Hancock said. “What's the point in Brexit if we're not going to make ourselves a more attractive regime than our continental neighbors?”
It’s been a turbulent few months in British politics. Mass resignations from Boris Johnson’s government in July were followed by a leadership contest to replace him, and then by the death of Queen Elizabeth – all leaving little time for policy tinkering. The industry is crying out for the government to act.
“A lot of the stuff that is set in train does need to be finalized,” said Andrew Whitworth, a policy director for crypto company Ripple who’s based in London, during an online interview. “We can't just trickle on, we do need this clarity.”
Whitworth took comfort from pro-crypto remarks from financial minister Richard Fuller made after Truss took office, but is still hoping for higher profile support from the government in the coming months.
Read more: Crypto Remains a Priority for UK Under New Leader, Drawing Industry Excitement
Hancock himself certainly has a few ideas for what changes need to happen – and isn’t satisfied with existing legislative plans initiated by Sunak back in April.
“The Financial Services and Markets Bill that's in front of Parliament now is, in my view, essentially a placeholder, it shows intent,” Hancock said – warning that he will get involved if the government itself doesn’t intervene in the coming weeks to, as he puts it, get the details right.
Hancock wants to switch the burden of proof so that “the regulator has to show that there's a problem,” rather than the current situation where startups must seek “permission” from the Financial Conduct Authority before they can even get going.
“I want people to be able to build, and only get involved with the regulator when [or] if there's a genuine problem,” he said.
Alongside changing the FCA’s “demeanor,” Hancock wants to see clarity on how existing rules apply to crypto, tax tweaks and a more favorable capital treatment for crypto to encourage traditional finance players in.
Achieving Hancock’s goal, and Whitworth’s, would rely on a calming of recent political turbulence. Though in principle the next election won’t be called before 2025, current polls seem to suggest a landslide for the opposition Labour Party – from which, Hancock says, there is less crypto enthusiasm.
“I don't think it [crypto] is particularly party political,” he said, “But I do think there are more people who get this on our side of the fence … the center-right of politics looks more for freedom.”
A spokesperson for the Labour Party did not respond to CoinDesk’s request for comment on Hancock’s remarks – but the evidence does seem to be that, indeed, the center-left opposition grouping is more crypto-skeptic.
“Many are rightly questioning whether crypto has a future at all,” Labour Party Treasury spokesperson Abena Oppong-Asare said during a Sept. 7 parliamentary debate, adding that the country had become a “center for illicit crypto activity” and that Russian oligarchs had used crypto to avoid western sanctions.
“A Labour government would be serious about attracting fintech companies to the U.K. and safely harnessing the progressive potential of blockchain technology,” Oppong-Asare said. “To do that properly, we need thorough and thoughtful regulation of the sector.”
Crypto isn’t Hancock’s first foray into online innovation: As minister responsible for digital policy back in 2018, he released his own social media app, named after himself. Intended to prove online discourse can be civil, he still seems rather proud of it.
“It became a really friendly, if slightly self-mocking, place... I'm fully aware of the many memes that it's sparked,” he said. “I post on it pretty regularly, about constituency stuff, generally.”
You can still download Matt Hancock from the Appstore, and recent posts on local issues such as hospital expansions and canceled bus routes have attracted a couple of likes each. Will there be a Web3 version, CoinDesk asked?
“No,” he said. “The technology's not mature enough yet.”
UPDATE (Oct. 13, 2022, 10:16 UTC): Amends reference to leadership contest; extends quote regarding app."
238,235,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/13/popular-bitcoin-astrologers-star-falls-on-twitter-following-30k-in-celsius-payments/,Popular Bitcoin Astrologer’s Star Falls on Twitter Following $30K in Celsius Payments,"Twitter critics accused Maren Altman, who has more than 1.8 million social media followers, of not being forthcoming about her deal with the now-bankrupt crypto lender. The influencer says her marketing sponsorship role is no different than doing fashion ads.",2022-10-13,"Maren Altman, a popular bitcoin and ether-focused astrologist, is suddenly a fallen star among some Twitter critics. A newly surfaced court document shows she received $30,000 in marketing payments from the crypto lender Celsius Network in the months before it declared bankruptcy.
Altman’s Twitter critics say she received the money to create favorable content about Celsius while the company was suffering cash flow issues, and they criticized her for being less than forthcoming about the payments.
In an interview with CoinDesk, Altman, who offers investing predictions based partly on her astrological interpretations to a vast social media audience that includes more than 237,000 Twitter followers, acknowledged that Celsius paid her but called the Twitter accusations “a witch hunt.” She said she has spoken with an attorney about possible legal action, such as suing for defamation.
“My error was trusting Celsius,” she said. Did she know about Celsius’ finances, Altman said, “Not a clue, no visibility on anything other than my marketing campaign.”
The uproar comes as Celsius is embroiled in lengthy, complicated court proceedings over how to pay back irate shareholders and customers. A court document released last week showed Celsius founder and former CEO Alex Mashinsky and another executive withdrew $17 million from the platform right before the company froze user accounts and filed for bankruptcy.
Celsius’ problems have contributed to a wider free fall in crypto prices and a loss of confidence in the industry’s future. The lender attributed its woes to the implosion of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and its sister coin LUNA.
In recent years, a number of crypto companies have paid social media influencers to widen awareness about their businesses.
But what Altman described as a “partnership” has raised the hackles of industry observers sensitive to Celsius’ financial management and the timing of her contract.
Altman, a prominent influencer who has more than 1.8 million followers across Tik Tok, Twitter, YouTube and Instagram, gained a significant following during the last bull run for posting crypto trading content that integrated astrology.
In March 2022, Celsius and Altman agreed to a marketing influencer sponsorship. In her YouTube videos Altman said Celsius is her home for crypto and highlighted the ease of buying crypto on Celsius.
Altman told CoinDesk in an interview that her partnership was “no different than me doing a fashion ad for a company.”
Shared with CoinDesk, Altman's contract with Celsius indicated that she would receive US$15,000 per calendar month “in exchange for 2 (two) YouTube video mid-roll advertisements per calendar month and 2 (two) mentions of Celsius delivered on Tik Tok.”
But the contract also stated that as a Celsius partner, Altman should “NOT TALK ABOUT CEL TOKEN. No past, present or future statements, analysis, charts of information of any kind.”
Altman added, “I’m not allowed to talk about anything illegal for U.S. standards, which includes the CEL token pumping or whatnot.”
Included in Altman’s Celsius-related YouTube videos was a disclosure that the lender paid for the promotion.
Altman’s last YouTube video promoting Celsius was on May 24.
According to Altman, Celsius suddenly ended the contract in May 2022, saying it was restructuring and would not continue any creator contracts. The turnabout came right as crypto markets were crashing: TerraForm Labs collapsed in May and Celsius halted withdrawals, swaps and transfers in June, citing “extreme market conditions.”
The outrage about Altman’s relationship with Celsius emerged recently when the pseudonymous Twitter account @BowTiedIguana posted a screenshot from the 14,500 page Celsius court filing, which shows two $15,000 pay stubs from Celsius to Altman.
The publicly available court document, which shows the financial records of Celsius’ co-founders, also includes the April 21 and May 26 payments from Celsius to Altman.
The situation intensified when ZachXBT, a Twitter account that investigates on-chain hacks and scams, accused Altman of being dishonest about receiving payment from Celsius, highlighting an interview she’d done with Mashinsky. ZachXBT posted a screenshot of the interview’s comments section that showed Altman saying, “I wasn’t paid [crap]” in response to someone who asked, “Did Mashinsky pay you in CEL token?”
Crypto YouTuber Aaron Bennett, who has more than 54,300 subscribers, neatly summarized why critics were hounding Altman:
Other anons have accused Altman of being a “grifter” and “poop witch,” and said her company was a “Ponzi scheme.”
In an Oct. 9 blog post, Altman acknowledged the paid partnership with Celsius but said the Mashinsky interview was “a favor and not paid.”
The Twitter war of words did bring out some defenders for Altman, including Eric Wall X (@ercwl), who posted that Altman had “staked a significant portion of her social capital doing marketing for this business [Celsius] which she’d suffer from if they turned out to be scumbags, which she’s doing now, nothing crazy.”
Altman said that she couldn’t “overstate the viciousness and insanity of the threats. … It’s like a witch hunt for someone they don’t even know. … The equivalent of this would be like if I was paid by Peloton to talk about their bike and investors blamed me for the stock price going down.”
James Rubin and Bradley Keoun contributed to reporting."
239,232,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/17/sec-cftc-probing-bankrupt-crypto-hedge-fund-three-arrows-capital-report/,"SEC, CFTC Probing Bankrupt Crypto Hedge Fund Three Arrows Capital: Report",The federal agencies are looking into whether Three Arrows misled investors about its balance sheet and whether the hedge fund should have registered with them.,2022-10-17,"The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are examining whether bankrupt crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital violated rules by misleading investors about its balance sheet and not registering with the two agencies, Bloomberg reported, citing two people familiar with the matter.
The Singapore-based Three Arrows filed for bankruptcy in July, saying its business had “collapsed in the wake of extreme fluctuations in cryptocurrency markets.” In particular, the hedge fund suffered huge losses stemming from the collapse of the terraUSD algorithmic stablecoin in May. At the end of June, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) reprimanded Three Arrows Capital for misleading it with allegedly false information.
The CFTC didn’t immediately respond to a request for a comment on the report.
With Three Arrows’ co-founders Su Zhu and Kyle Davies’ location unknown and the liquidators in the bankruptcy case and their attorneys unable to track them down, the liquidators recently asked the court to be able to serve the two subpoenas via their email addresses, Twitter accounts and the email addresses of their attorneys.
Read more: Three Arrows Capital's Liquidator Takes Possession of Starry Night NFT Wallet"
240,240,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/18/bankrupt-crypto-lender-voyager-plans-to-settle-ceo-cfo-negligence-claims-related-to-three-arrows-loans/,"Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager Plans to Settle CEO, CFO Negligence Claims Related to Three Arrows Loans",An internal probe found that risky loans made to 3AC were based on minimal financial disclosures from the hedge fund.,2022-10-18,"Crypto lender Voyager Digital is planning to settle with two top executives over their handling of loans made to crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC) following an internal probe, according to court filings submitted on Monday.
In March, CEO Stephen Ehrlich and then-Chief Financial Officer Evan Psaropoulos agreed to allow Voyager to lend Three Arrows nearly $1 billion in crypto with very little financial disclosure from the fund, according to the filings.
When LUNA and its sister token terraUSD began to collapse in May, Voyager sought to determine the impact on Three Arrows and was initially told Three Arrows had only limited exposure to LUNA. Later in June, however, 3AC employee Tim Lo advised Voyager to recall all of its loans to 3AC because he was concerned that 3AC’s founders weren't responding to requests for information from Lo and other employees.
With hours of that communication, Voyager recalled all its outstanding loans to 3AC, and the hedge fund soon entered into liquidation in the British Virgin Islands.
A special committee comprised of two of Voyager’s board members found that pursuing negligence claims against Ehrlich and Psaropoulos, who is now Voyager’s chief commercial officer, would be difficult and expensive and that Voyager would be unlikely to recover much.
Instead, Voyager is suggesting a settlement that would have Ehrlich pay $1.1 million in cash to Voyager, pursue claims under directors and officers insurance policies for as much as $20 million and allow Ehrlich and Psaropoulos to continue in their current roles.
The settlement is subject to approval by the bankruptcy judge in the case.
Toronto-based Voyager filed for bankruptcy in New York in July, in large part because of the losses from its loans to Three Arrows.
Read more: Voyager Digital's Creditors Push Back Against Plans to Provide Execs With Legal Immunity"
241,230,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/18/terra-co-founder-do-kwon-continues-to-deny-being-on-the-run/,Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon Still Says He's Not on the Run,The South Korean developer also continued to dismiss claims that $67 million was frozen on crypto exchanges OKX and KuCoin.,2022-10-18,"Do Kwon, the controversial co-founder of Terraform Labs, the firm behind the Terra blockchain network, has denied claims that he is on the run from law enforcement, despite Interpol issuing a ""red notice"" for his arrest last month.
In an interview with Laura Shin on the ""Unchained"" podcast, Kwon explained that he moved to Singapore from South Korea before the collapse of the Terra ecosystem, which saw $60 billion in value evaporate in May.
""There's no reason why any government official would believe we fled to Singapore,"" Kwon said.
Kwon, who was also behind failed stablecoin project Basis Cash in 2020, also dismissed claims that any of his funds have been frozen.
""To say that the funds are frozen, I have not used KuCoin or OKX, as far as I can remember. I don't have any funds there. If they froze $67 million I would definitely have noticed,"" he reiterated. KuCoin and OKX are crypto exchanges.
""There has been allegations that we moved LFG [Luna Foundation Guard] funds into a Gemini custody wallet and that it's sitting there. All we did – to confirm a trade with market maker – is transfer it to an address on the market maker's instruction,"" he continued.
The collapse of the Terra ecosystem led to widespread financial and emotional damage across the crypto industry, with some investors reportedly losing their life savings. A man in Taiwan reportedly committed suicide after losing $2 million.
""Yes, I am sorry,"" Kwon responded after being pressed for an apology by Shin. ""It could seem that the way we are responding to allegations and news reports that we are being defensive. That is not the case.
""Statements about the stability of UST led traders to gain confidence in a system that ultimately failed. I do apologize and own up to the responsibility of that,"" he concluded, referring to the terraUSD stablecoin that his company developed.
Read more: Do Kwon Denies Report That South Korean Prosecutors Froze $39.6M of His Crypto"
242,242,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/28/crypto-hedge-fund-arca-nearly-doubles-sales-for-flagship-fund-despite-luna-exposure/,Crypto Hedge Fund Arca Nearly Doubles Sales for Flagship Fund Despite LUNA Exposure,"The Digital Assets Fund, which had Terra’s collapsed token as a core holding, now has $191.7 million in sales.",2022-10-28,"Arca, a crypto hedge fund with around $500 million in assets under management, came close to doubling sales of its flagship fund in one year, even after telling investors it had been exposed to the Terra ecosystem, which collapsed in May.
The Arca Digital Assets Fund, which invests in the tokens of crypto companies, had raised $191.7 million as of Oct. 24, up from $109 million at the beginning of October 2021, the firm said in a filing this week with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The number of investors in the fund, which is still open to new investors, increased from 333 to 576 between the filings.
The type of SEC filing Arca used typically includes the amount of money investors have given the fund – or sales – though some companies instead provide the fund’s assets under management, which would reflect performance. According to Arca’s Investment Adviser registration documents, the Arca Digital Assets Fund had a $234.3 million gross asset value as of June 30.
In an investor letter sent out in May, Arca revealed exposure to Terra’s native token LUNA and its stablecoin terraUSD (UST). The algorithmic stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar in a dramatic collapse, taking LUNA with it. Arca said Digital Assets held LUNA at the time of the letter, which still predicted a recovery for the Terra tokens.
Arca manages three other funds built off the framework of the Digital Assets vehicle, according to the firm’s website: The actively managed Arca Digital Yield that had Terra’s UST as a core holding, early-stage venture capital-focused Arca Endeavor and Arca NFT for non-fungible token exposure. The funds had gross asset values of $53 million, $10 million and $24.4 million at the end of June, respectively.
Arca declined to comment on this article when contacted by CoinDesk.
Read more: Stealthy Crypto Hedge Fund Edge Capital Raises $66.8M for DeFi Bets"
243,241,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/28/hodlnaut-judicial-managers-say-they-face-hurdles-in-determining-financial-situation/,Hodlnaut Judicial Managers Say Lender Lost $189.7M in Terra Collapse,"The company's records were not properly maintained and some company executives are not cooperating, the managers said in a report.",2022-10-28,"The Singapore-court-appointed managers of Hodlnaut, a crypto lender that froze withdrawals in August, said they are facing significant difficulties in determining an accurate financial position of the company.
""Among other reasons, the company’s accounting and financial records have not been properly maintained,"" the interim judicial managers (IJM) said in their first report to the court and the company's creditors. In addition, some company directors and other employees are preventing access to ""various key books and records.""
Hodlnaut directors came under fire for downplaying the extent of the firm's exposure to TerraUSD (UST) during the $60 billion collapse of the Terra ecosystem. The firm converted a ""significant amount"" of crypto into UST, much of which was staked on the now defunct Anchor Protocol to generate a yield. Directors of Hodlnaut HK, a subsidiary of Hodlnaut, said that the loss sustained equates to $189.7 million.
Terra’s implosion led to widespread contagion and a subsequent downturn across the crypto market, with several firms, including prominent hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, filing for bankruptcy alongside crypto lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital.
A review of transaction data by the judicial managers shows that Hodlnaut employees withdrew a total of $550,000 between the beginning of July and the time the firm froze withdrawals for customers.
According to figures in the report, Hodlaut total estimated asset's equate to $74 million with liabilities of $267.6 million, a shortfall of $193.6 million. Almost three-quarters of Hodlnaut's assets are in decentralized finance (DeFi) positions across Compound, Convex and Aave.
The IJMs plan to consolidate all assets from centralized exchanges to a custodial wallet. They will also conduct further reviews of Hodlnaut directors to see if any additional claims can be pursued by creditors.
The next report will be published on Dec. 15.
UPDATE (Oct. 28, 13:48 UTC): Adds Hodlnaut's UST exposure, employee withdrawals and financial situation.
UPDATE (Oct. 28, 15:00 UTC): Changes headline, adds context throughout.
See more: Crypto Lender Hodlnaut Placed Under Interim Judicial Management by Singapore Court"
244,239,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/31/after-huobi-delisting-stablecoin-husd-falls-72-from-dollar-peg/,After Huobi Delisting Stablecoin HUSD Falls 72% From Dollar Peg,Huobi has said it will assist customers in exchanging HUSD for USDT.,2022-10-31,"The once-popular HUSD stablecoin has fallen dramatically from its $1 peg, dropping to a low of 28 cents after crypto exchange Huobi announced it delisted the asset on Friday.
Huobi said users can still exchange HUSD tokens for tether (USDT), the industry's largest stablecoin by market cap.
Stablecoins are designed to mirror the value of other assets, typically fiat currencies like the dollar, pound sterling or euro. The stablecoin sector was shaken up earlier this year following the collapse of terraUSD (UST), which prompted an implosion of the entire $60 billion Terra ecosystem.
HUSD, which is issued by Stable Universal, also suffered issues earlier this year when it began to fluctuate away from its peg.
Tron founder Justin Sun has taken a senior role at Huobi in recent weeks and one of the immediate changes he is making is shifting volume to his own stablecoin, USDD. While Huobi didn't issue HUSD, it was active in marketing the token since its launch in 2018.
HUSD currently has a market cap of just $63 million, down significantly from its all-time high of over $1 billion in 2021.
Huobi did not immediately reply to CoinDesk's request for comment."
245,243,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/01/gibraltar-will-focus-on-stablecoins-and-defi-lending-after-market-turmoil/,Gibraltar Will Focus on Stablecoins and DeFi Lending After Market Turmoil,"The territory wants to develop its regulatory framework for crypto, Albert Isola, minister for digital and financial services, said in an interview with CoinDesk.",2022-11-01,"Gibraltar’s financial regulator is exploring whether it needs to further regulate stablecoins and decentralized finance (DeFi) lending after the recent collapses of Terra and crypto lenders like Celsius Network.
The Gibraltar Financial Services Commission (FSC) wants to bring decentralized finance lending and stablecoins into “sharp focus,” William Gracia, head of distributed ledger technology (DLT) and markets at the FSC said Tuesday during “Gibraltar Day,” an event in central London to celebrate the British overseas territory's progress of blockchain and DLT within its borders.
The price of the then-$18 billion algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) collapsed and caused the crypto market to melt down and lose billions of dollars in a month, which then triggered the fall of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. Meanwhile, lender Celsius Network and crypto brokerage Voyager Digital froze withdrawals and suffered severe losses.
These events got the attention of regulators around the world, with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority saying it would consider the collapse of Terra in its planned stablecoins rules while European Union lawmakers added new stablecoin provisions to their Markets in Crypto Assets legislation.
“In order for it to be a long-term sustainable business industry for Gibraltar, consumer protection needs and the protection of the reputation of Gibraltar needs to be at the forefront of what we do that means applying higher standards and best industry practices to ensure the continued success story of the DLT framework,” Gracia said.
The British overseas territory already has its Financial Services (Distributed Ledger Technology Providers) Regulations 2020 and recently added a 10th guiding principle that crypto companies have to follow which focuses on maintaining market integrity. It also has a licensing regime for DLT which in the past has been accused of being tough for firms to receive.
“After some time of continuously punching above our weight I think we have earned a heavyweight title,” Gracia said, reflecting on the country’s crypto achievements.
Last December Gibraltar said it planned to integrate blockchain technology in its systems.
Read more: Gibraltar's Government Targets Crypto Market Manipulation With New Rules
The country is working on developing its regulatory framework for crypto and is not afraid to look to other countries for guidance, Albert Isola, Gibraltar's minister for digital and financial services, said in an interview with CoinDesk.
“I have always said unashamedly [that] if somebody is doing it better than us we will have a look and copy you. We want to get to a good set of regulatory principles which we can comply with, introduce and keep the bad actors away from our shores” Isola said."
246,46,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/01/terra-victim-invictus-capital-defaults-on-1m-truefi-loan/,Terra-Victim Invictus Capital Defaults on $1M TrueFi Loan,This is the second time in a month that a lender defaulted on an unsecured loan on the decentralized lending protocol.,2022-11-01,"Failed crypto hedge fund Invictus Capital failed to repay a loan from decentralized lending protocol TrueFi, according to TrueFi’s loan data dashboard.
The firm missed paying down its $1 million loan denominated in Binance USD (BUSD) stablecoin, which was due to mature on Oct. 30. The debt was uncollateralized, meaning that Invictus did not pledge any assets against it, and secured the loan by its reputation and good financial standing at the time.
TrueFi warned investors in a Twitter post in early October that Invictus might fail to repay the loan. New World Holdings, Invictus’ Cayman Islands-based parent company, entered into voluntary liquidation after suffering a blow in the crypto rout initiated by the multibillion-dollar implosion of once-top blockchain project Terra. Invictus reportedly moved investor funds to Terra’s failed stablecoin UST and to crypto lender Celsius Network that went bankrupt in July.
TrueFi has not issued a “notice of default” to Invictus yet. Invictus borrowed $28.8 million and paid it back with interest on TrueFi through 2020 and 2021 before defaulting on its latest loan, according to TrueFi’s dashboard.
“Invictus’ default once again illustrates the fragility of trust-based uncollateralized lending,” Walter Teng, vice president of digital asset strategy at research group Fundstrat, told CoinDesk.
This is the second uncollateralized loan to default on TrueFi within a month following Korea-based Blockwater’s failure to repay its $3 million debt on the platform. Another decentralized lending protocol, Maple Finance, faced difficulties in June after Babel Finance, a crypto lending firm, became insolvent and defaulted on a $10 million loan. The default resulted in a $7.9 million loss to investors. Maple decided to tighten its lending standards, Bloomberg reported last month.
These defaults amid the ongoing shakeout among struggling crypto firms show the risks and challenges of incorporating unsecured lending – which is widespread in traditional markets – to decentralized finance in the young,volatile digital asset market.
CoinDesk sent inquiries to TrueFi and Alvarez & Marsal, New World Holding’s representative in the court-assisted liquidation, for comment.
Read more: DeFi Debt Marketplace Credix to Open a $150M Stablecoin Credit Pool to Digital Lender Clave"
247,35,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/01/dogecoin-led-the-pack-among-cryptocurrencies-in-october-with-17-times-bitcoins-gains/,Dogecoin Led the Pack Among Cryptocurrencies in October With 17 Times Bitcoin's Gains,"Elon Musk’s Twitter $44 billion deal drove speculation in the Shiba Inu-themed meme coin, which more than doubled in price during the month.",2022-11-01,"Give that DOGE a bone.
Dogecoin (DOGE), the canine-inspired meme token often associated with electric-vehicle-tycoon-turned-Twitter-owner Elon Musk, was the top performer in October among the 150 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI).
The DOGE price rose 101% during the month, vastly outpacing the 7% climb in the CMI overall. Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market value, was up 5.5% on the month, while ether (ETH) gained 18%.
Digital-asset analysts attributed the big jump in DOGE to Musk’s dramatic $44 billion takeover of Twitter – ostensibly tied to speculation that the deal might somehow, eventually, bring value or utility to the Dogecoin blockchain and its eponymous cryptocurrency.
During a May 2021 appearance on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live,” Musk used the line, “Call me the Dogefather.” And in January 2021, Musk used Twitter to send out an image of himself holding up a Shiba Inu puppy – the dog breed that inspired dogecoin.
Musk at one point suggested – perhaps in jest, perhaps not – charging 0.1 DOGE per tweet.
Dogecoin rose “on the back of excitement over Elon Musk's takeover of Twitter,” the digital-asset investment fund QCP Capital wrote Monday in a note on Telegram. “Musk's tweets have created price swings in the past, even suggesting using DOGE as payment for a Twitter subscription.”
Katie Talati, head of research at crypto asset-management firm Arca Funds, said dogecoin’s recent trading spikes “have very much been speculation-driven,” similar to last year’s frenzy in meme stocks.
“It's the same way as people trading GameStop and AMC,” Talati said. “It’s a token that drove a lot of retail interest.”
Among the CMI index constituents, Mask Network’s MASK token was the second-best performer in October, with a 96% return, followed by the decentralized crypto exchange SushiSwap’s SUSHI token, which surged 45%. SushiSwap’s decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) approved a restructuring last week.
Ether’s monthly return was fueled partly by a short squeeze last week. The cryptocurrency has benefited from fresh speculation following the Ethereum blockchain’s Merge last month, which shifted the network to a more energy-efficient “proof-of-stake” network. The change also drastically reduced the pace at which the blockchain is producing new tokens – implying less overall supply.
Bitcoin’s return during the month was more muted, but bulls were enthused by its price jump above $20,000 for the first time in 18 days.
Talati attributed ETH’s outperformance over BTC to “market structure,” given that more traders had been betting against ETH than BTC – and not an indication of“anything fundamentally shifting.”
“Bitcoin doesn't really have a strong narrative right now, whereas ETH still does have the Merge narrative,” she said.
Rally (RLY), an ERC-20 token, was the biggest loser in the CMI, falling 33% in October.
The insolvent crypto lending platform Celsius Network’s native token CEL lost 27%, amid reports that its former CEO, Alex Mashinsky, withdrew $10 million in the weeks before the company froze customer accounts.
Another big loser was Terra Luna Classic’s LUNC token, which also lost 31% during the month – potentially dashing hopes among traders who had hoped for a recovery following the network’s collapse in May.
LUNA, the native coin of the Terra 2.0 blockchain, the fork that emerged from Terra Classic, slid around 1% during the month. Its controversial co-founder, Do Kwon, denied claims in October that he is on the run from law enforcement, despite Interpol issuing a “red notice” for his arrest in September. Earlier this month, Terra’s developers attempted to revive the LUNA ecosystem and increase user activity with the token.
What’s ahead in November? Talati said the World Cup could spark interest in sports-fan tokens like Chiliz (CHZ), from “the advertising perspective.”
She said she “wouldn't be surprised” to see crypto ads on banners around the stadium during matches – similar to Coinbase putting up a QR code in an ad during the Super Bowl in February.
Dogecoin likely will continue to ride waves of speculation. “At the end of the day, there aren't like financial applications built on top of it,” Talati said."
248,89,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/02/lending-protocol-truefi-issues-notice-of-default-to-invictus-capital-for-failing-to-repay-loan/,Lending Protocol TrueFi Issues Notice of Default to Invictus Capital for Failing to Repay Loan,"Archblock, the underwriter of the loan, joins the court-advised liquidation process of crypto hedge fund Invictus' parent company in an attempt to recover losses for investors.",2022-11-02,"Decentralized lending protocol TrueFi issued a notice of default on Wednesday to failed crypto hedge fund Invictus Capital after it missed repaying a $1 million loan.
Invictus took out a $1 million uncollateralized loan from TrueFi’s Binance USD (BUSD) credit pool, which was due to mature on Oct. 30, according to data on TrueFi’s loan dashboard. The borrower secured the loan with its good financial standing and reputation but didn’t pledge any assets against it, complicating the recovery of losses and restitution to those who invested in the credit pool.
TrueFi said it tapped its default protection fund designed to compensate affected investors, cutting 10% of the platform’s governance token TRU locked up in staking.
New World Holding, Invictus’ parent company, entered into a court-advised liquidation process on the Cayman Islands this summer after it became insolvent due to the implosion of the Terra blockchain and crypto lender Celsius Network’s bankruptcy.
Following the loan default, Archblock (formerly TrustToken), which manages relations between lenders and borrowers on TrueFi, will join the liquidation process in an attempt to reclaim assets. At the time, when TrueFi originated the loan to Invictus, Archblock was the sole underwriter of the loan.
This is the second loan default within a month on the TrueFi platform after Blockwater missed payment on a $3 million debt in October, CoinDesk reported. Rival lending platform Maple also encountered a default on a $10 million loan.
“Collections on the New World Holdings and Blockwater loans will be handled by Archblock’s special servicing team on behalf of TrueFi,” Diana Bushard, general counsel at Archblock, told CoinDesk. “Archblock has engaged local counsel in both matters and is actively pursuing asset recovery to minimize their impact on TrueFi lenders.”
Recent defaults on loans without collateral demonstrated the inherent fragility of uncollateralized lending based on trust, according to Walter Teng, vice president of digital assets at research firm Fundstrat.
Read more: TrueFi's $4M Bad Debt in Limbo Shows Risk of Crypto Lending Without Collateral"
249,218,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/04/crypto-firm-arca-closed-its-terra-exposed-digital-yield-fund/,Crypto Firm Arca Closed Its Terra-Exposed Digital Yield Fund,"The fund was shuttered on Aug. 31 with around $20 million in assets under management, the CEO confirmed.",2022-11-04,"Crypto hedge fund Arca shuttered its Digital Yield Fund less than a year after its launch due to the broader market downturn, a person close to the firm told CoinDesk. The fund had slightly over $20 million in assets under management at the time of its closure, and the capital was returned to investors, according to the person.
“After a strategic business review, we have decided to close our Digital Yield Fund which took effect Aug. 31,” Arca CEO Rayne Steinberg confirmed in an email to CoinDesk. “Given changing market conditions, we believe that this decision was in the best interest of our investors.”
Arca announced the actively-managed Digital Yield Fund in September 2021 and targeted effective yields in the low double digits. The fund had a gross asset value of $53 million as of June 30, according to the firm’s annual Investment Adviser registration documents.
In an investor letter sent out in May, Arca revealed that the fund had exposure to Terra’s collapsed terraUSD (UST) stablecoin. The exposure didn’t force the closure, said the source, but was rather an example of the market turbulence that shifted Digital Yield’s risk-reward balance. Arca remains open to launching a similar product in the future, according to the source.
Arca manages three other funds. The flagship Digital Assets vehicle invests in the tokens of crypto companies and nearly doubled its sales to investors year-over-year to $191.7 million, according to a regulatory filing last week. The venture capital-focused Arca Endeavor and a non-fungible token (NFT) fund had gross asset values of $10 million and $24.4 million, respectively, at the end of June.
Read more: Crypto Investor Protocol Ventures to Shutter and Return Cash: Report"
250,214,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/04/eu-delays-vote-on-mica-crypto-legislation-until-february/,EU Delays Vote on MiCA Crypto Legislation Until February,Technical issues in the lengthy text could delay the start of the licensing regime set out in the Markets in Crypto Assets regulation.,2022-11-04,"European Union lawmakers won’t vote on the Markets in Crypto Assets regulation (MiCA) until February, likely meaning further delays in the landmark licensing regime for crypto companies within the bloc, a spokesperson for the European Parliament has told CoinDesk.
A previous tentative plan for the Parliament to vote at its December plenary session has been abandoned given the length and complexity of the text, CoinDesk was told.
The political outline of the legislation, which sets reserve requirements for stablecoins intended to avoid a terraUSD-style collapse, was approved in June, and the final text published in October. However, the text still needs to be formally signed off by both lawmakers and national governments that make up the EU’s Council.
EU procedures require legal acts such as MiCA, which was negotiated in English, to be available in all the bloc's 24 official languages.
The law’s provisions, which require crypto companies such as wallet providers and exchange platforms to seek authorization from national regulators, start to apply between 12 and 18 months after the final law is published in the EU’s Official Journal – an event originally foreseen for spring of next year, but which now seems set to be pushed back.
Read more: Analyzing What's Next for Europe's Markets in Crypto Assets Law"
251,33,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/ether-solana-trade-at-premium-on-ftx-here-is-probably-why/,"Ether, Solana Trade at Premium on FTX – Here Is (Probably) Why","The premium stems from users with trapped assets on FTX putting their money into major tokens in hopes of receiving some recovery value, one observer said.",2022-11-10,"Ethereum's native token, ether (ETH) and Solana's SOL are drawing higher prices on troubled crypto exchange FTX relative to Binance and other platforms. The unusual market dynamic has observers scrambling for an explanation.
At press time, ether traded at a premium of $52 or 4.5% on FTX compared to Binance, data from the charting platform TradingView show. SOL meanwhile traded at a premium of nearly $2 or 11%. A similar premium is seen in FTX-based perpetual futures contracts tied to BTC and ETH.
The premium stems from FTX-based traders switching from cash and cash equivalents (stablecoins) to major cryptocurrencies in the wake of the exchange stopping clients from taking direct custody of their crypto and fiat funds and signaling potential bankruptcy, according to Markus Thielen, head of research and strategy at Matrixport.
""While FTX pricing might not be in line with other exchanges anymore, traditional bankruptcy procedures always favor the asset holders over the cash holders as assets should be assigned to users. Co-mingled or not,"" Thielen told CoinDesk. ""Hence, users with trapped assets on FTX could be putting their money into major tokens in hopes of receiving some recovery value as their name would / should be assigned to that asset.""
""That’s why ETH is trading at a premium,"" Thielen said.
In other words, users are more likely to receive some value if they hold crypto assets rather than cash or cash equivalents. And that's probably prompting FTX-based traders to snap up coins, leading to relatively higher prices on the exchange.
FTX's troubles began early this week after Binance moved to liquidate its holdings of the FTX token (FTT) in response to a CoinDesk report showing FTX's sister concern Alameda holding large amounts of illiquid FTT tokens on its balance sheet.
On Tuesday, Binance offered to bail out FTX only to back out of the deal late Wednesday. FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried told investors that without a cash injection, the company may have to file for bankruptcy.
Per some observers, the FTX premium in the perpetual markets results from clients executing ""synthetic withdrawals"" from the troubled exchange.
Users are supposedly executing a synthetic or paper withdrawal by purchasing (going long) ETH, SOL perpetual contracts on FTX and selling or shorting an equal amount on Binance, creating a market-neutral or delta-neutral position. That way, users get custody of their funds, at least on paper, and stand protected against an extended price slide.
""It's a synthetic withdrawal play. The thesis is that if FTX goes down, markets go down and users get paid on their short positions outside FTX even if FTX balance becomes worthless,"" Lewis Harland, portfolio manager at Decentral Partk Capital, told CoinDesk.
A fund manager I know who’s trapped in FTX just went totally degen:

He’s bearish, so he went all in long on FTX, and hedged equal size on Binance, hoping to “get the money back on Binance without waiting for withdrawals”

if the market bounces instead, he’s double fucked on FTX
Crypto hedge fund Galois Capital, which predicted the Terra turmoil early this year, voiced a similar opinion in a Tweet thread.
""In the case of the world where the acquisition deal goes through, you are roughly flat (lose a bit on the basis). In the case of the world where the acquisition falls through, the losses on FTX don't matter much because you can't get your money out anyway, but you win on the short Binance leg,"" Galois said.
The assumption here is that a potential FTX bankruptcy will trigger another round of panic selling in the market. And if FTX secures funding, clients will be made whole. However, both things are not promised.
After Binance backed out from a bailout deal, investors may have priced in a potential bankruptcy. And markets may bounce once the bankruptcy is confirmed in a classic ""sell the rumor, buy the fact"" trade, yielding losses on the short trade taken outside FTX.
Further, a trader can get liquidated on both exchanges due to high volatility. Liquidations occur when the market goes against the bullish/bearish position, leading to margin shortage.
According to Galois Capital, the strategy seems the best fit for a token like SOL that would generally do poorly in both deal and no-deal states.
""Since the current SOL value is the superposition of both the deal and no deal worlds, if it ends up being a deal, SOL should have a short-term rally and if it ends up being no deal, SOL should fall,"" Galois Capital noted.
""The upside is shallower because who actually wants to buy SOL in the current environment where everyone is relatively poorer and there is an overhang of unlocking Alameda tokens which will be continuously liquidated over time,"" the fund added."
252,91,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/troubled-crypto-lender-hodlnaut-had-18m-on-ftx-before-withdrawal-freeze/,Troubled Crypto Lender Hodlnaut Had $13M on FTX Before Withdrawal Freeze,"Hodlnaut held bitcoin, ethereum and stablecoins on FTX before withdrawals were frozen.",2022-11-10,"Singapore-based crypto lender Hodlnaut has been dealt another blow on its path to recovery after it emerged that it held SGD 18.3 ($13.3M) million worth of crypto on FTX, the crypto exchange that halted withdrawals earlier this week.
According to a report by Hodlnaut's interim judicial managers, which was published on Oct. 28, Hodlnaut consolidated over 71% of its assets on centralized exchanges, with SGD 18.4 ($13.3M) million being held on FTX including bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and stablecoins.
FTX customers are currently unable to get funds out of the exchange after a liquidity crunch that stemmed from a CoinDesk report exposing the vulnerable financial situation of Alameda Research - FTX's sister company.
It is possible that Hodlnaut's managers moved funds away from FTX before operations were halted.
Hodlnaut was one of several companies that succumbed to the pressures of this year's cryptocurrency bear market, freezing withdrawals in August after reportedly losing $189.7 million in the collapse of the Terra ecosystem.
The report by Hodlnaut's managers also states that employees of the lending firm withdrew a total of $550,000 between the beginning of July and when withdrawals were halted.
CORRECTION (Nov. 11, 02:34 UTC): Updates headline, body with SGD figures instead of USD, and percentage of assets."
253,87,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/tron-network-usdd-stablecoin-wobbles-from-dollar-peg-amid-latest-crypto-crisis/,Tron Network USDD Stablecoin Wobbles From Dollar Peg Amid Latest Crypto Crisis,Justin Sun speculated in a tweet that struggling trading firm Alameda might have started the deviation by selling its USDD holdings.,2022-11-10,"The Tron network's algorithmic stablecoin decentralized USD (USDD), championed by Tron founder Justin Sun, dropped from its $1 anchor as the implosion of the prominent crypto exchange FTX shook investors' confidence in broader crypto markets.
USDD fell to as low as below 97 cents on multiple crypto exchanges Wednesday after it deviated from a supposed 1:1 exchange rate with the U.S. dollar a day before.
The USDD liquidity pool on the decentralized finance protocol Curve, where users can trade USDD for other stablecoins such as USDT, USDC and DAI, is heavily imbalanced, with USDD accounting for almost 80% of assets in the pool. This imbalance suggests that more investors want to sell USDD than buy, putting downward pressure on USDD's price. The USDD exchange rate for other stablecoins was most recently around 98.5 cents.
Sun speculated in a tweet that Alameda Research, the liquidity-strapped trading firm and sister company of struggling crypto exchange FTX, might have sold its USDD holdings, kick-starting the stablecoin's deviation from the peg.
A Tron spokesperson told CoinDesk they don't consider the recent decline a depeg, as Tron DAO set the acceptable level of fluctuation in USDD's price to 3% under extremely volatile market conditions.
USDD is the native stablecoin of the Tron blockchain with a $725 million market capitalization. It is designed to keep its price stable at $1, supported by a combination of trading incentives and the storage of more crypto assets in the Tron DAO Reserve than USDD's total value. It was started in May, around the time Terra network's USTC stablecoin lost its dollar peg, igniting a full-blown crisis in the broader digital asset market.
Stablecoin prices depegging from their supposed exchange rate is a tell-tale sign of a liquidity crisis in the crypto market. In May and June, several stablecoins lost their pegs while crypto firms such as Three Arrows Capital, Voyager Digital and Celsius Network faced insolvencies. USDD also dropped to 96 cents in June, according to data on cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko."
254,217,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/15/celsius-terra-tax-implications/,The Tax Impact of This Year’s Platform and Protocol Failures,The Celsius Network bankruptcy and the failure of Terra have caused many questions for taxpayers caught in the middle.,2022-11-15,"Throughout 2022, the crypto economy has been in the throes of a bear market, which has taken a heavy toll on investors, platforms and protocols. While investors have watched the value of their holdings drop, there has been an uptick in failures at the platform and protocol levels, which has added fuel to the fire of investment losses and caused many questions for taxpayers caught in the middle.
Let’s examine two of the larger events to occur this year: the Celsius Network bankruptcy and the failure of Terra and its cryptocurrency LUNA, and discuss the potential tax implications of each.
Phil Gaudiano is the co-founder and CFO of Polygon Advisory Group. This article is part of Tax Week.
Celsius was a crypto lending platform that advertised very high interest rates on various cryptocurrencies that its 1.7 million users transferred to the platform. At its peak, the company held almost $12 billion worth of customer deposits under management. Then, on June 12 of this year, facing a liquidity crisis, Celsius posted a memo online informing its users that all withdrawal, swap and transfer functionality would be temporarily paused. A month later, on July 13, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
For customers of Celsius, there are many questions related to the failure of the platform. One that we often hear in our tax practice is, “Can I deduct my Celsius losses?”
The deductibility of Celsius losses hinges on the concept of bad debt, which is outlined in Section 166 of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. Since most Celsius customers are individual investors, we will look specifically at Section 166(d), which deals with nonbusiness bad debts, defined as any debt not related to the taxpayer’s trade or business. Generally, a nonbusiness bad debt is recognized as a short-term capital loss on a taxpayer’s return.
Two requirements need to be met to recognize a loss from a nonbusiness bad debt on a tax return:
There must be a bona fide debt
The debt must be completely worthless
Under Regulation Section 1-1.66-1(c), a bona fide debt is based on “a valid and enforceable obligation to pay a fixed or determinable sum of money” at some point. The determinable sum of money involved here would be the value of crypto deposited into Celsius.
For the debt to be completely worthless, it must be considered wholly uncollectible. It is important to note that under the regulations there is no mechanism for partial deductibility of nonbusiness bad debts. Instead, the entire debt must be worthless to deduct the bad debt as a capital loss.
Many taxpayers believe that Celsius’ bankruptcy filing is grounds to consider its underlying debts worthless; however, Regulation Section 1.166-2(c) holds that bankruptcy only indicates the worthlessness of “at least part of” a debt. Remember from above that the debt must be completely worthless to recognize a capital loss, so the regulations are reasonably clear here that bankruptcy proceedings don’t guarantee complete worthlessness.
So, what is a person who has crypto locked inside Celsius to do? The short answer is to wait and see. Once bankruptcy proceedings are finalized, some or all of the funds owed by Celsius to its customers may be paid back. But until we know for certain how much, if any, will be returned to customers there is no allowable tax loss. The entire tax code revolves around realization events – the consummation of transactions that have an economic effect – which trigger recognition of income, deductions, gains and losses. In this situation, there has been no realization event yet. In short, nothing has happened from a tax perspective.
The Terra ecosystem was a decentralized finance (DeFi) project that provided high yields to investors. During 2022 the yields offered on staked deposits of its native stablecoin terraUSD (UST) were nearly 20% per year.
TerraUSD is an algorithmic stablecoin that used its sister cryptocurrency, LUNA, to maintain its peg to the U.S. dollar. In May, over $2 billion worth of terraUSD was unstaked and began to be liquidated. As a result, terraUSD lost its peg to the dollar. More LUNA was minted in an effort to reclaim the peg, thereby flooding the market with LUNA tokens and diluting the value of each LUNA token in circulation. In a matter of a few days, LUNA had gone from a market price of over $120 to less than 1 cent.
Many investors saw the value of their LUNA and UST holdings fall precipitously during the crash. While it is unlikely that LUNA and terraUSD will recover their values (both are currently trading more than 95% below all-time highs), there is some relief available to investors who choose to sell their holdings and recognize a capital loss.
As mentioned previously, realization events form the backbone of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). IRC Section1222 discusses various types of capital gains and losses, all stemming from the “sale or exchange” of a capital asset. In short, in order for a capital loss to be recognized an investor must first sell the asset at a loss. Continuing to hold LUNA (now trading as LUNC) or UST precludes loss recognition because no sale has occurred. The silver lining here is that both UST and LUNC are still available to trade on many exchanges, so selling the assets at a loss is possible.
Celsius and Terra are not the only major failures we have seen. Numerous other platforms and protocols have succumbed to the bear market over the course of 2022. For taxpayers caught in the middle there is some relief available through deductible losses – as either bad debts or capital losses, depending on the situation – but not until there is some triggering event that causes realization of those losses. If you are a taxpayer with exposure to a failed crypto project, consult your tax adviser to determine the best course of action in your case."
255,222,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/16/south-korean-prosecutors-raid-terra-co-founders-company-in-ust-probe/,South Korean Prosecutors Raid Terra Co-Founder's Company in UST Probe,Officials said they suspect Chai Corp. leaked customer information to Terraform Labs.,2022-11-16,"South Korean prosecutors investigating the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) algorithmic stablecoin raided the headquarters of Chai Corp., whose CEO Daniel Shin was a co-founder of Terraform Labs.
The Tuesday raid on the Seoul-based payment services company was conducted by the Seoul Southern District Prosecutor's Office's Financial and Securities Crime Joint Investigation Team.
The value of UST fell to zero after it lost its peg to the dollar, and the subsequent contagion across the crypto industry led to numerous lenders, brokers and exchanges filing for bankruptcy protection. In April a South Korean court issued an arrest warrant for Terra's CEO Do Kwon, whose location is unknown, along with five others. Officials have also raided seven cryptocurrency exchanges in South Korea as part of a fraud probe in connection with the now defunct coins.
""Prosecutors suspect that Chai Corporation leaked customer payment information to Terraform Labs without permission in the process of launching the Terra payment service in 2018,"" according to a statement sent to CoinDesk.
This isn't the first time Shin has been targeted. Officials raided his home in July as part of the same investigation.
See also: Luna Foundation Guard Spent $2.8B Defending UST Peg, Third-Party Audit Finds
UPDATE (Nov. 16, 12:25 UTC): Adds dropped word in third paragraph."
256,223,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/16/luna-foundation-guard-spent-28b-defending-ust-peg-third-party-audit-finds/,"Luna Foundation Guard Spent $2.8B Defending UST Peg, Third-Party Audit Finds",Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon dismissed similarities with the collapse of FTX.,2022-11-16,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), the entity behind the collapsed Terra ecosystem, spent $2.8 billion of crypto trying to defend the peg of algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD (UST) in May, according to a third-party audit by JS Held, a Jericho, N.Y.-based consultancy firm.
The audit also suggests that Terraform Labs (TFL), the developer of the Terra blockchain, spent $613 million trying to defend the peg. A stablecoin is an asset that is designed to mirror the value of another asset, commonly fiat currencies. UST was an algorithmic stablecoin, designed to maintain its peg through market forces.
The efforts of LFG and TFL ultimately failed, with the value of UST falling to zero as the $60 billion ecosystem met its demise. The collapse led to widespread contagion across the crypto industry, with numerous lenders, brokers and exchanges filing for bankruptcy protection due to exposure to the ecosystem.
“While there have been multiple recent failures in crypto, it is important to distinguish between Terra’s case, where a transparent, open-source decentralized stablecoin failed to maintain peg parity and its creators spent proprietary capital to try to defend it, and failure of centralized custodial platforms where its operators misused other people’s money (customer funds) for financial gain,"" said Do Kwon, Terraform Labs founder.
Do Kwon's location is unknown after Interpol issued a Red Notice to law enforcement agencies around the world.
CORRECTION (Nov. 16, 11:17 UTC): Corrects location of JS Held headquarters, an earlier version of the story said it is based in London."
257,221,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/16/circle-ceo-calls-for-clear-us-laws-on-stablecoins-to-unleash-their-potential/,Circle CEO Calls for Clear US Laws on Stablecoins to 'Unleash' Their Potential,"In a letter to lawmakers, Jeremy Allaire said inaction will ""stunt America's voice.""",2022-11-16,"Circle CEO and founder Jeremy Allaire wrote to Congressional leaders for financial services, calling for clear, workable U.S. legislation on stablecoins and warning of the risks to the country of not doing so.
Allaire addressed the letter to Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Cali) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), who chair the House Committee for Financial Services and the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs respectively, as well as ranking members Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) and Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Penn).
Inaction in this area will ""stunt America's voice"" as other jurisdictions make progress with establishing comprehensive regulatory regimes for digital assets, according to Allaire.
""The United States is at risk of missing an opportunity to set the rules that will govern the future of payments, money, and other sectors of the global economy,"" Allaire said in the letter. He cited China's development of the digital yuan ""with the goal of outpacing the United States and replacing the dollar as the world's reserve currency.""
Allaire also referred to the risk to consumers in the absence of a clear way of identifying which stablecoins adhere to a bona fide regulatory regime.
""Not all stablecoins are created equal,"" he wrote, possibly referring to terraUSD (UST), which plummeted in value in June causing billions of dollars in losses to users worldwide.
Allaire said ""reasonable, workable, and clear legislation can unleash new economic activity"" through the reassurance it would offer to businesses and consumers that the value embedded in stablecoins is protected by the law. Users would be ""shielded from deleterious and irresponsible financial alchemy.""
A stablecoin bill had been expected by many to make its way through Congress sometime this year, however negotiations became bogged down owing to disagreements over topics such as the role of state regulators, the possibility of a future digital dollar in the U.S. and the treatment of customer money held by crypto platforms.
Read more: UK Stablecoin Rules Approved by Lawmaker Committee"
258,219,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-sinks-amid-cryptos-latest-debacle/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Sinks Amid Crypto's Latest Debacle,"ALSO: Shaurya Malwa considers the widening fallout from FTX, now including Genesis Global Capital's decision to pause withdrawals. Could TradFi be swept up next in the crisis?",2022-11-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos sank after the lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading suspended customer withdrawals.
Insights: The fallout from FTX's collapse continues to widen. What's likely to happen next in the industry?
Bitcoin Sinks Amid Crypto's Latest Debacle
By James Rubin
Et tu, Genesis Global Capital?
Crypto's latest stab in the back came Wednesday morning as the lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading temporarily suspended redemptions and new loan originations, adding to the rapidly widening fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s collapse.
This article was adapted from Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Crypto markets recoiled with most major cryptocurrencies spending much of the day in the red.
Bitcoin was recently trading just below $16,700, down 1.4% over the past 24 hours as Bitcoin investors resumed their defensive posture of the past week. Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,200, a 3.7% decline. Other major altcoins were largely in the red with CEL and UNI both off more than 5%. FTX’s FTT token declined nearly 4% and was trading at just $1.66, far removed from its high near $36 earlier in the year.
Genesis Interim CEO Derar Islim told customers on a call that Genesis is exploring solutions for the lending unit, including finding a source of fresh liquidity. He said Genesis intends to detail its plan to clients next week. Genesis Global Capital serves an institutional client base and had $2.8 billion in total active loans as of the end of the third quarter of 2022, according to the company’s website. Genesis owner Digital Currency Group (DCG) is also the parent company of CoinDesk. ""Today Genesis Global Capital, Genesis's lending business, made the difficult decision to temporarily suspend redemptions and new loan originations. This decision was made in response to the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion,"" said Amanda Cowie, vice president of communications and marketing at DCG.
Equity markets continued to pay scant attention to crypto's ongoing travails. The tech heavy Nasdaq jumped more than a percentage point, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) dropped slightly.
Genesis’ announcement is the latest entanglement to FTX’s liquidity crisis and subsequent filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last week. The industry is already reeling from multiple debacles earlier this year, including the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the LUNA token that backs it.
In an email to CoinDesk, Gene Hoffman, president and COO of energy efficient blockchain Chia Network, noted in an email to CoinDesk that Genesis Global Capital is suffering from ""the type of problem (that) blockchains are built to solve.""
""The Wall Street paradigms and behaviors applied to the emerging technology are what keep blowing up, and will continue to blow up,"" Hoffman wrote. ""Cryptocurrency doesn’t add anything to lending, and yet we’ve seen actors in the space extending themselves and cranking up their leverage with dubious assets and no oversight.
He added: The industry has to move beyond the “crypto bro” schemes and rugpulls. Crypto and blockchain are not an “asset class” but are a set of rivalrous technologies and we should approach cryptocurrency and blockchain responsibly.""
FTX Fallout Widens. What's Next for the Crypto Industry?
By Shaurya Malwa
Crypto markets have a way of ignoring time.
Some weeks pass with markets and technical developments moving slower than a snail’s leisurely walk.
Then there are days that pack months – or arguably years’ – worth of action into a few hours. The recent collapse of crypto exchange FTX and spreading fallout belongs to the latter category. In a few days, one of crypto’s flagship enterprises has evaporated, and contagion has gripped markets swept up in new doubts about the industry’s stability.
Crypto funds and projects have lost hundreds of millions of dollars custodied on exchanges and lending companies have ceased certain operations, most recently the lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading, which suspended withdrawals on Wednesday. Genesis Global Capital had $2.8 billion in active loans in its recently completed third quarter, as CoinDesk reported.
Genesis Global Trading CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of the same parent firm, Digital Currency Group (DCG).
In a call early Wednesday, Interim CEO Derar Islim told customers that the company’s issues related to FTX’s collapse.
Islim said that Genesis is exploring solutions for the lending unit, including finding a source of fresh liquidity. He added Genesis intends to detail its plan to clients next week. The story now sounds like a refrain of the crypto industry’s myriad tragedies of recent months. Terraform Labs, Celsius and Three Arrows Capital all offered some vague hope of making good to customers, even as their paper walls were crumpling. What hope has Genesis Global Capital?
Last week, Genesis disclosed that its derivatives unit had about $175 million in locked funds in its FTX trading account. As a result, DCG opted to strengthen Genesis’ balance sheet with an equity infusion of $140 million.
The announcement was noted by Gemini, the crypto exchange and custodian that has a partnership with Genesis.
""We are working with the Genesis team to help customers redeem their funds from the Earn program as quickly as possible,"" Gemini said in a statement, adding that it was “encouraged by Genesis’ and its parent company Digital Currency Group’s commitment to doing everything in their power to fulfill their obligations to customers under the Earn program.""
To be sure, Genesis has not declared solvency issues. The client call implied Genesis was currently illiquid due to market conditions but not insolvent, which would mean it was unable to pay debts owed.
Scant comfort.
Market affect?
Scores of market participants on Crypto Twitter floated theories of how Genesis’ problems would affect the market – ranging from the impact on DCG-owned investment firm Grayscale’s bitcoin and ether products to on-chain sleuths signaling trouble at crypto exchange Gemini, citing on-chain data.
Some opine the search for liquidity to help Genesis may see it unwind part of its GBTC holdings, a Grayscale product that tracks bitcoin, causing prices of bitcoin to plummet to as low as $8,000.
Genesis is a big player in crypto that a year ago, in what now seems the long-ago, pre-bear market past, had over $50 billion in loan originations and $12.5 billion in active loans. It traded over $31 billion in spot volume and over $21 billion in derivatives volumes. Those volumes fell last quarter, however, because of troubles at Three Arrows Capital, another once-high-flying crypto fund.
Traditional finance market participants liken the ongoing crisis to historic macro events, such as Long Term Capital Management’s (LTCM) billion-dollar implosion in the early 90s and Lehman Brothers’ fall from grace in 2008.
Some of these institutions may soon be caught up in the current mess. The next chapters in this ongoing, unsavory saga are difficult to predict, although the chances are likely that conditions will worsen before they improve.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(0:30 UTC) Australia Employment Change s.a. (Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Initial Jobless Claims (Nov 11)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:30 UTC) Japan National Consumer Price Index (YoY/Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Fallout: Genesis' Crypto Lending Unit Halts Withdrawals, Legal Ramifications for Sam Bankman-Fried
As the ripple effects from the FTX collapse weigh on the industry, ""First Mover"" covered the latest developments, including the impact on BlockFi, CoinDesk sister company Genesis and Sam Bankman-Fried himself as FTX prepares for bankruptcy proceedings. Lisa Bragança, former SEC enforcement branch chief, Arca CIO Jeff Dorman and Oppenheimer Senior Analyst Owen Lau joined ""First Mover"" to discuss.
4 Key Takeaways from the FTX Fiasco: The real reason why the FTX failure hits so hard is not because the crypto industry was duped, but because it proved that the industry was vulnerable to being duped.
DeFi Giant MakerDAO Speeds Up DAI Transactions and Withdrawals, Expands to Arbitrum, Osmosis: MakerDAO’s new technology, Maker Teleport, enables users of the DAI stablecoin to circumvent Ethereum’s congested base layer.
StarkWare Deploys StarkNet Crypto Token on Ethereum Blockchain: The tokens are not yet available for sale.
Matter Labs Nets $200M to Build zkSync Ethereum Scaling Platform: A week after zkSync V2’s “baby alpha” launch, Matter Labs said it would open-source its code and push for improved standards around rollup development.
Grayscale Declares 'Business as Usual' Despite Sister Company Genesis Global Capital Suspending Withdrawals: Grayscale said that ""Genesis Global Capital is not a counterparty or service provider for any Grayscale product."""
259,220,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/08/senate-committee-to-subpoena-ftxs-sam-bankman-fried-if-he-does-not-testify/,Senate Committee to Subpoena FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried if He Does Not Testify Voluntarily,The Senate Banking and House Financial Services committees are holding hearings on FTX's collapse next week.,2022-12-08,"The Senate Banking Committee wants Sam Bankman-Fried to appear before it next week in person to discuss the collapse of FTX, and will subpoena him if he does not appear voluntarily, a letter from its leaders said Wednesday.
Senators Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), respectively the chair and ranking member of the committee, wrote a public letter to Bankman-Fried, who resigned from the exchange the same day it filed for bankruptcy protection last month. The committee is holding a hearing on Wednesday, Dec. 14, a day after the House Financial Services Committee holds its own hearing on the exchange.
“FTX’s collapse has caused real financial harm to consumers, and effects have spilled over into other parts of the crypto industry. The American people need answers about Sam Bankman-Fried’s misconduct at FTX,"" the lawmakers said in a prepared statement. ""The Committee has requested that he testify at our upcoming hearing on FTX’s collapse, and will consider further action if he does not comply.”
Normally, witnesses appear voluntarily, the lawmakers said in the letter. If Bankman-Fried does not confirm his participation by Thursday, ""I am prepared, along with Ranking Member Pat Toomey, to issue a subpoena to compel your testimony,"" the letter signed by Brown said.
House Financial Services Committee Chair Maxine Waters has also invited Bankman-Fried to testify, saying in a tweet Wednesday that she may also seek to subpoena him if he does not appear voluntarily.
Bankman-Fried has gone on a press tour since the bankruptcy, speaking to numerous reporters. He has not provided any concrete answers about how FTX appeared to send billions in customer funds to Alameda Research, another company he founded and was a majority owner of, saying he was unsure how it happened and implying that others were responsible for the fund movements.
He now faces a number of investigations, including an investigation by federal prosecutors with the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Southern District of New York, who are investigating whether Bankman-Fried may have tried to manipulate the price of TerraUSD and Luna, which collapsed in their own dramatic fashion earlier this year, according to the New York Times.
UPDATE (Dec. 8, 2022, 00:51 UTC): Adds additional detail."
260,88,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/12/first-mover-asia-qcp-capital-founder-sees-crypto-industrys-immediate-future-tied-to-genesis-debacle-expects-rebound-in-2024/,"First Mover Asia: QCP Capital Founder Sees Crypto Industry’s Immediate Future Tied to Genesis Debacle, Expects Rebound in 2024","During a panel discussion at Taipei Blockchain Week, Darius Sit noted continued institutional adoption of the crypto options and derivatives market, among industry high points; bitcoin rises; Bahamas announces the arrest of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried",2022-12-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin returned to its perch comfortably above $17,000 after dipping earlier in the day amid a news report that Binance was the subject of a U.S. federal probe.
Insights: QCP Capital founder Darius Sit told a Tapei Blockchain Week audience that he does not see a recovery before 2024.
Bitcoin Continues Its Side Ways
By James Rubin
A day before they will have a clearer view of the inflation landscape, investors had to reckon with the crypto industry's latest storm clouds: a report that Binance is the subject of a U.S. Justice Department probe, and later Monday, the arrest of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried.
Bitcoin tumbled below $16,900 at one point before recovering to recently trade at about $17,235, up slightly over the past 24 hours. BTC has spent much of the past two weeks clinging to support above $17,000 and seems likely to continue its tenacious ways for at least another day when the Bureau of Labor Statistics announces November's Consumer Price Index (CPI) report.
Inflation has shown signs of continuing its downward trend of recent months. On Wednesday, the U.S. Federal Reserve will likely drop its latest interest rate increase to 50 basis points (bps) from its current streak of 75 bps hikes, although markets are likely to remain nervously watchful for the time being.
""It's a strong risk-off environment, not just in crypto but across every industry and in every country around the world,"" Hany Rashwan, CEO of 21.co, the parent company of crypto exchange-trading fund firm 21 Shares, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""The easiest way of thinking about this is [in] the last 10 years money has been cheaper to acquire, to borrow. As interest rates go up, the value of money becomes higher, so it becomes harder to get, and as a result people spend more carefully.""
Yet, Rashwan added that his firm has ""been comforted internally by the plateauing of the bitcoin price within a specific band.""
Ether followed a similar pattern to bitcoin, falling earlier in the day before rebounding. The second-largest crypto by market value was recently changing hands at about $1,275, a small gain from Sunday, same time. Most other major cryptos were in the green, with MATIC, the token of layer 2 platform Polygon, and SUSHI, the token of the Sushiswap decentralized exchange, recently rising about 2% and 1%, respectively.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was recently up 0.23%.
U.S. equity indexes closed in an upbeat mood about inflation and the Federal Reserve's expected dovish turn. The tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 rose 1.3% and 1.4%, respectively.
Meanwhile, according to Reuters, the Justice Department has discussed possible plea deals with Binance's lawyers. Prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Seattle began investigating Binance in 2018 after a spate of cases that saw criminals use Binance to transfer illicit funds, according to Reuters. Other prosecutors believe that more evidence needs to be gathered before a criminal case can be filed, causing a split within the Department of Justice.
Late Monday, the Bahamian Attorney General's office announced the arrest of Bankman-Fried. ""SBF's arrest followed receipt of formal notification from the United States that it has filed criminal charges against SBF and is likely to request his extradition,"" the office wrote in a release. ""As a result of the notification received and the material provided therewith, it was deemed appropriate for the Attorney General to seek SBF's arrest and hold him in custody pursuant to our nation's Extradition Act.""
Genesis Shakeout Will Determine When Crypto Can Rebound
By Sam Reynolds
Everything that could go wrong in crypto has gone wrong in crypto, QCP Capital’s founder and chief investment officer said during a panel at Taipei Blockchain Week. But there are still uses for the asset class, and ""green shoots"" are emerging.
“We are in a credit crisis triggered by LUNA and UST,” QCP’s Darius Sit said on stage, referring to the Terra token and algorithmic stablecoin. “This means there are cascading effects on everyone that had credit risks, and there are still some landmines in the space.”
Sit said that he sees a great reset and washout caused by the credit crisis, which won't end until investors see whether Digital Currency Group (DCG) and its Genesis Global Trading unit are going to collapse or stay together. (DCG is also the parent company of CoinDesk).
“If this comes apart, there’s another round of defaults,” he said.
Sit pegs a recovery happening around 2024, but macroeconomics will also play a role in this. He noted that the most successful appreciation of digital asset prices came during the COVID-19 pandemic when the U.S. Fed was enlarging its balance sheet. But now the opposite is happening.
As far as the use cases and green shoots go, Sit points to the strength of the stablecoin industry, which Sit says has record revenue. There’s also the continued institutional adoption of the crypto options and derivatives market, where QCP is the most active.
“The trading teams are all former [foreign exchange] people,” Sit said.
If there’s one thing that not even a “dot-com bubble and 2008” can change, it's that everyone is now talking about crypto, Sit said. Meaning, from the cab driver to the banker to the former FX people now trading crypto options and derivatives. Things like NFTs and Web3 gaming will survive this market cycle – but just at a lower valuation.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) European Union Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (YoY/Nov)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Consumer Price Index ex Food & Energy (YoY/Nov)
7:50 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:50 UTC) Bank of Japan Tankan Non-Manufacturing Outlook (Q4)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
US Prosecutors Reportedly Split on Charging Binance Over Possible Money Laundering; Bitcoin Trades Sideways
Tuesday, lawmakers will hear from Sam Bankman-Fried after his crypto exchange, FTX, filed for bankruptcy protection. The former CEO is scheduled to testify before the House Financial Services Committee in the first of two hearings this week on the FTX collapse. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De had a preview of the hearings and an update on the U.S. Justice Department's reported investigation of FTX rival Binance. Also, 21.co co-founder and CEO Hany Rashwan shared his crypto markets outlook. Plus, Paul Brody of Ernst & Young kicked off ""Crypto 2023: What's Next For Crypto?""
Coinbase Says Law Enforcement Requests Rose 66% From Year Ago: The number of requests from the U.S., which accounted for about 43% of the total, increased by 6%.
Ark Invest Adds Coinbase Stock as Crypto Exchange's Price Slides: The purchase takes the ARK Innovation ETF's holding to 5.7 million COIN shares and marks its first investment in the crypto exchange in a month.
US Prosecutors Look to Charge Binance, Executives on Possible Money Laundering Violations, Reuters Reports: The Department of Justice has also discussed a possible plea deal with Binance's lawyers, the report added.
Bitcoin Group Agrees to Buy German Bank Bankhaus von der Heydt for More Than $15M: The transaction is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2023.
Bermuda Digital Bank Jewel Issues ‘Fully-Backed’ Stablecoin: The Jewel USD stablecoin will be launching on Polygon."
261,228,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/12/terras-do-kwon-is-in-serbia-report/,"Terra's Do Kwon Is in Serbia, CoinDesk Korea Reports","The Terraform Labs co-founder is wanted in South Korea, backed by Interpol.",2022-12-12,"Do Kwon, who is wanted internationally in connection with the collapse of the Terra ecosystem, has moved to Serbia through Dubai, CoinDesk Korea reported on Monday.
Kwon was the co-founder and CEO of Terraform Labs, which was behind the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) that was deppeged from the U.S. dollar in May. The depegging quickly sent luna (LUNA), the token that was used to stabilize UST, on a downward spiral. The Terra domino was the first to fall in a crypto winter that most recently saw the collapse of crypto exchange FTX.
South Korea, where Kwon is from, had issued an arrest warrant for the founder. Interpol had also reportedly issued a red notice for the co-founder, which is a request to law enforcement around the world to locate and provisionally arrest a person pending extradition, surrender or similar legal action.
The Seoul Southern District Prosecutor's office said Monday that Kwon was in Serbia, and the local Ministry of Justice was in the process of asking Serbian authorities for their cooperation in the investigation, CoinDesk Korea reported.
Kwon left South Korea in April for Singapore, and went to Dubai in October, from where he went to Serbia, CoinDesk Korea reported. Authorities are concerned that he might have already moved to another country; his passport has been invalidated so authorities cannot check official records, according to the report.
Bloomberg had earlier reported that Kwon was in Europe.
Prosecutors asked for an arrest warrant for Terra's other co-founder, Daniel Shin, but courts denied the request as they don't believe he will flee or try to destroy evidence.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA"
262,225,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/12/first-mover-americas-cathie-woods-ark-buys-more-coin-do-kwon-is-in-serbia/,First Mover Americas: Cathie Wood’s Ark Buys More COIN; Do Kwon is in Serbia,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Dec. 12, 2022.",2022-12-12,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Cathie Wood's Ark Investment Management bought 78,982 shares in cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase (COIN), its first investment in the crypto exchange in a month. At Friday's closing price of $40.24 the purchase would have cost about $3 million. The stock has been in a funk in recent months, and is down almost 60% from $98 in early August. The purchase takes the ARK Innovation ETF's (ARKK) holding to 5.7 million COIN shares.
Crypto media site The Block (a competitor to CoinDesk) was secretly funded over the last two years by Sam Bankman-Fried’s Alameda Research. The Block’s CEO, Michael McCaffrey, immediately resigned after the loans came to light, and will also step down from The Block's board. McCaffrey received three loans for a total of $43 million. The first loan was for $12 million in 2021, the second was for $15 million in January and the third was for $16 million.
Do Kwon, who is wanted internationally in connection with the collapse of the Terra ecosystem, has moved to Serbia through Dubai, CoinDesk Korea reported on Monday. Kwon was the co-founder and CEO of Terraform Labs, which was behind the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) that was deppeged from the U.S. dollar in May. The Terra domino was the first to fall in a crypto winter that most recently saw the collapse of crypto exchange FTX.
The chart shows the neutrino dollar, or USDN, an algorithmic stablecoin of the Waves ecosystem, has crashed to about 78 U.S. cents, the lowest point on record.
Last week, South Korea's Digital Asset Exchange Association, comprising five major crypto exchanges – Upbit, Bithumb, Coinone, Korbit and Gopax – labeled WAVES, an asset backing USDN, as an ""Investment Warning"" asset.
The group said WAVES could become volatile due to USDN de-peg.
The stablecoin has lost its peg at least five times this year.
– Omkar Godbole
Maple Finance's $54M of Sour Debt Shows Risks of Crypto Lending Without Collateral
Crypto Payments App MoonPay Gains UK Regulator Registration
Class Action Lawsuit Against Sam Bankman-Fried and Celebrity FTX Promoters Gets a New Judge in Miami"
263,229,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/13/canadian-securities-regulators-to-strengthen-crypto-oversight-after-ftx-collapse/,Canadian Securities Regulators to Strengthen Crypto Oversight After FTX Collapse,The country's securities regulatory body will consider enforcement action if crypto companies do not comply.,2022-12-13,"The Canadian Securities Administrators (CSA) will strengthen its approach to crypto oversight following the recent events in the crypto market, according to a statement on Monday.
The body, which consists of securities regulators from each of the 10 provinces and three territories in Canada, said it would be expanding its existing requirements for platforms that are currently operating in the country. In August it had announced that it was expecting unregistered crypto companies in the country to do a pre-registration undertaking (PRU) while their application was approved.
""If a platform currently subject to securities legislation in Canada does not deliver a PRU to its principal regulator or cease operating, the CSA will consider all applicable regulatory options to bring the platform into compliance with securities law, including enforcement action,"" the statement said.
Regulators around the world have been looking more critically at crypto since FTX, which was the third-largest exchange by volume at one point, declared it was bankrupt and had misused customer funds. Its former CEO ,Sam Bankman-Fried, was arrested on Monday after the U.S. filed criminal charges.
Read more: FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried Arrested, Bahamas Says
Recent events, where some of the biggest crypto companies and coins have collapsed including crypto lender Celsius Network and Terra's algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST), have led to billions being wiped out of the crypto market within a year.
Crypto trading platforms that are registered as a security or have applied for a PRU are banned from permitting Canadian clients to trade or obtain exposure to crypto securities or derivatives, the statement reminded companies.
""The CSA continues to monitor and assess the presence and role of stablecoins in Canadian capital markets,"" the statement said.
UPDATE (Dec. 13, 13:17 UTC): Adds line on derivatives inclusion in sixth paragraph."
264,90,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/14/citi-says-crypto-market-leverage-open-interest-are-historically-low/,"Citi Says Crypto Market Leverage, Open Interest Are Historically Low",The bank expects a broader focus on decentralization in 2023 following this year’s failings in centralized crypto ventures.,2022-12-14,"The past year in the digital asset market has been characterized by a series of negative shocks, triggered initially by the collapse of Terra/LUNA, Citi (C) said in a research report Monday looking back on the year.
“Leverage, volatility and interest have faded as investors battle with declining prices,” analysts led by Joseph Ayoub wrote. “Retail interest has broadly diminished as prices have declined,” and this has “coincided with a more general decline in volatility.”
Institutional interest has also declined. This “loss of trust” followed the failure of many centralized entities, and is reflected in exchange-traded product (ETP) flows, which have remained negative throughout the year, the report said.
Against a broader macro backdrop of inflation concerns, rising interest rates and tightening financial conditions, total crypto market cap has declined by about 61% compared to an 18% drop for the S&P 500 index, the report added.
The bank says the bankruptcies of crypto exchange FTX and lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital were failures of centralized entities rather than decentralized entities, “perhaps signifying the resilience of decentralized finance protocols.” Decentralized finance (DeFi) is an umbrella term for a variety of financial applications carried out on a blockchain.
Bitcoin open interest saw a significant decline, the note said. It started the year at more than $23 billion and has dropped to around $9 billion. Leverage has also largely declined. Open interest is the total number of outstanding derivative contracts held by investors and represents active positions.
The bank notes there is still over $150 billion in market cap across stablecoins. This type of cryptocurrency saw only 5% net redemptions in 2022. However, relative declines show different investor behavior and diverging confidence in stablecoins, with tether (USDT) losing as much as $10 billion in market cap, while USD coin (USDC) stayed roughly level and Binance USD (BUSD) increased.
Spot trading volumes have remained resilient despite falling crypto prices, and decentralized exchange (DEX) volumes have grown in recent weeks following the collapse of FTX. The demise of FTX has “further bolstered policymaker calls for crypto regulation, placing a greater emphasis on consumer protection,” according to the note.
Read more: Goldman Sachs Sees Gold Outperforming Bitcoin in the Longer Term"
265,94,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/27/japan-plans-to-allow-local-listing-of-foreign-stablecoins-nikkei/,Japan Plans to Allow Local Listing of 'Foreign' Stablecoins Such as USDT and USDC: Nikkei,The Financial Services Agency is seeking feedback on new stablecoin regulations set to take effect in 2023.,2022-12-27,"Japan's Financial Services Agency is seeking feedback on new regulations that would allow stablecoins issued outside the country to be listed on local exchanges, Japanese newspaper Nikkei reported on Monday.
Under the draft regulation, local distributors will be allowed to handle payments-focused stablecoins, which are cryptocurrencies stabilized against the value of sovereign currencies like the U.S. dollar, if they maintain sufficient assets.
Another article published on Monday said the regulations stand to reverse a ban on the distribution of foreign stablecoins locally. Local exchanges don't currently list stablecoins like USD Coin (USDC) and tether (USDT) that are issued by foreign entities.
Following the collapse of multibillion-dollar stablecoin issuer Terra earlier this year, Japan's parliament passed a set of rules specific to stablecoins and focused on investor protection.
The new rules on foreign stablecoins would be applied in conjunction with the revised Payment Services Act, according to Nikkei. The framework is open for public comment until Jan. 31 and will come into force later next year.
Read more: Japan to Exempt Token Issuers From Corporate Tax on Unrealized Gains"
266,226,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/28/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-drifts-lower-as-crypto-winter-continues/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Drifts Lower as Crypto Winter Continues,"ALSO: CoinDesk Columnist David Z. Morris played soothsayer about the seriousness of the allegations against Sam Bankman-Fried, the former CEO of embattled crypto exchange FTX.",2022-12-28,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin drifted lower in Tuesday trading, albeit not by much as crypto prices remained largely frozen near levels they've held for a week.
Insights: In this last week of 2022, First Mover Asia is revisiting a few of CoinDesk's (CD) best, most impactful stories from the past year. Less than a month after a CD story led to the implosion of crypto exchange giant FTX in November, Chief Insights Columnist David Z. Morris zeroed in on the seriousness of CEO Sam Bankman-Fried's offenses. The U.S. Department of Justice subsequently charged Bankman-Fried with wire fraud and other alleged crimes. After posting bail, he is confined to his parents California home except to exercise, and must wear a tracking device.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Frozen Markets, a Bitcoin Drift
By James Rubin
Bitcoin drifted lower in Tuesday trading, albeit not by much as investors continued their historical, year-end hibernation. Crypto prices remain frozen near the levels they've held for much of the past two weeks.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently changing hands at $16,700, off 1.3% over the past 24 hours but near its most recent support just under $17,000. BTC's price has remained resilient over the past two months, despite the widening fallout from the implosion of crypto exchange FTX.
In a CoinDesk TV First Mover interview, Martin Leinweber, digital asset product strategist at Market Vector Indexes, noted bitcoin's strength relative to other cryptos. ""If you look at the coins that demonstrate relative strength, which means coins that fell the least amount from the all-time high, you will notice names that nearly no one would have imagined, especially when you consider the ranking,"" Leinweber said. ""So bitcoin was not the most defensive coin, one might expect from a store of value.""
Ether was recently trading just over $1,200, also down 1.3% from Monday, same time. Most other major cryptos were slightly in the red with LINK, the token of software platform Chainlink, and CRO, the native cryptocurrency of exchange Crypto.com, each sinking more than 2%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, fell 1.15%.
Major equity indexes closed mixed after a good news, bad news day in which China announced it would allow international travelers to enter the country again but Russia said it would ban oil sales to countries that had placed a $60 per barrel price cap on it – the latest fallout from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. How the moves will affect prices worldwide is uncertain. Brent crude oil, a widely watched measure of global energy markets, was recently selling at $85 per barrel, an 11% gain over the past three weeks. The tech-heavy Nasdaq slipped 1.4%, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average ticked up slightly.
Meanwhile, FTX's sad, unsavory saga continued with documents filed in Caribbean court showing that former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars from Alameda Research to purchase his stake in trading app Robinhood Markets (HOOD).
In an affidavit before his arrest, Bankman-Fried said he and FTX co-founder Gary Wang together borrowed over $546 million from Alameda via promissory notes in April and May. They used that money to capitalize Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd., the shell corporation that in May bought a 7.6% stake of Robinhood.
The FTX crisis has renewed calls for stronger regulation some seven months after the TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin lost its dollar peg. The consequent collapse of the Terra ecosystem during the spring jolted lawmakers who had been hesitating to create stricter guidelines targeting digital assets to ratchet up their efforts. As yet, little concrete has resulted, although many crypto insiders expect changes in the year ahead and beyond to protect investors.
Market Vector Indexes' Leinweber said he would embrace stablecoin regulation. ""I welcome those regulations,"" he said. ""It will lead to more dollars in that space. There are some unregulated, poorer constructed ones. But they're also good stablecoins.""
FTX’s Collapse Was a Crime, Not an Accident
By David Z. Morris, CoinDesk Chief Insights Columnist
In the weeks since Sam Bankman-Fried’s cryptocurrency empire was revealed to be a house of lies, mainstream news organizations and commentators have often failed to give their readers a straightforward assessment of exactly what happened. August institutions including the New York Times and Wall Street Journal have uncovered many key facts about the scandal, but they have also repeatedly seemed to downplay the facts in ways that soft-pedaled Bankman-Fried’s intent and culpability.
It is now clear that what happened at the FTX crypto exchange and the hedge fund Alameda Research involved a variety of conscious and intentional fraud intended to steal money from both users and investors. That’s why a recent New York Times interview was widely derided for seeming to frame FTX’s collapse as the result of mismanagement rather than malfeasance. A Wall Street Journal article bemoaned the loss of charitable donations from FTX, arguably propping up Bankman-Fried’s strategic philanthropic pose. Vox co-founder Matthew Yglesias, court chronicler of the neoliberal status quo, seemed to whitewash his own entanglements by crediting Bankman-Fried’s money with helping Democrats in the 2020 elections – sidestepping the likelihood that the money was effectively embezzled.
Perhaps most perniciously, many outlets have described what happened to FTX as a “bank run” or a “run on deposits,” while Bankman-Fried has repeatedly insisted the company was simply overleveraged and disorganized. Both of these attempts to frame the fallout obfuscate the core issue: the misuse of customer funds.
Banks can be hit by “bank runs” because they are explicitly in the business of lending customer funds out to generate returns. They can experience a short-term cash crunch if everyone withdraws at the same time, without there being any long-term problem.
But FTX and other crypto exchanges are not banks. They do not (or should not) do bank-style lending, so even a very acute surge of withdrawals should not create a liquidity strain. FTX had specifically promised customers it would never lend out or otherwise use the crypto they entrusted to the exchange.
CoinDesk's Chief Insights Columnist David Z. Morris unpacks his latest opinion piece that argues Sam Bankman-Fried, former CEO of troubled crypto exchange FTX, is a fraud.
See also: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried's Crypto Empire Blur on Alameda's Balance Sheet
In reality, the funds were sent to the intimately linked trading firm Alameda Research, where they were, it seems, simply gambled away. This is, in the simplest terms, theft at a nearly unprecedented scale. While the total losses have yet to be quantified, up to one million customers could be impacted, according to a bankruptcy document.
Read the full story here
11 p.m. HKT/SGT(3 p.m. UTC): U.S. Pending Home Sales (Nov. MoM/YoY)
8 p.m. HKT/SGT(12 p.m. UTC): U.S. Mortgage Bankers Association mortgage applications (Dec. 23)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Miners Powered Off as Winter Storm Battered North America; Bitcoin Holds Near $17K
Miners across the U.S. powered down over the weekend as a powerful storm swept across North America. MarketVector Indexes Digital Asset Product Strategist Martin Leinweber shared his crypto markets analysis. Also, Akin Gump Partner Ian McGinley shared his thoughts on the latest legal developments for former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried.
Crypto Investment Firm Midas Shutting Down Platform Following Losses: The collapse of Celsius and FTX led to more than 60% of Midas’ assets under management being withdrawn.
Mango Markets Exploiter Eisenberg Arrested in Puerto Rico: Federal agents were not a fan of Avraham Eisenberg’s “highly profitable trading strategy.”
Pudgy Penguins NFTs Break All-Time Highs With Holiday Rally: A fast-rising floor price caps the once written-off collection’s banner year.
Ellison and Wang Will Be ‘Game Changers' in Bankman-Fried's Trial, Lawyer Says: The testimony of the two FTX insiders could be damning for Bankman-Fried as he fights criminal charges, according to Ian McGinley, a partner at Akin Group.
Justice Department Launches Criminal Probe Into $400M FTX Hack: Bloomberg: Experts have suggested the digital fingerprints left by the alleged hacker points to an inside job."
267,38,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/29/solana-tokens-continue-steep-slide-while-major-cryptos-stay-flat/,Solana Tokens Continue Steep Slide While Major Cryptos Stay Flat,"SOL has dropped nearly 8% in the past 24 hours, adding to a 20% slide over the past week.",2022-12-29,"Crypto markets slid a nominal 0.8% in the past 24 hours as broader equity markets grappled with renewed coronavirus fears stemming from China.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index and Japan’s Nikkei 225 had shed 1% as of Asian afternoon hours on Thursday, while the Shanghai Composite fell 0.44%. Stocks fell amid weakened risk appetite on one of the final trading days of the year, according to Bloomberg.
The bearish sentiment, however, didn't seem to affect major cryptocurrencies, with bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and several other major tokens such as polkadot (DOT), binance coin (BNB) and XRP (XRP) seeing nominal change.
Solana (SOL), however, dropped as much as 10% in the past 24 hours, adding to a 20% slide over the past week. Selling pressure on the tokens came because of their close links to disgraced FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who faces charges of fraud and misappropriation of client funds.
Thursday's decline put SOL on track for nine straight days of losses, the longest run of declines since Sept. 17, 2021, based on Messari data.
Since 2020, Bankman-Fried has been a major proponent of the Solana network, launching the decentralized exchange Serum on the then-upstart network and investing heavily in the platform's projects.
Apart from prices, the value locked on Solana-based applications has declined 98% since November last year, DefiLlama data shows. Steep falls in Solana’s metrics came after the implosion of Terra network in May and a market-wide drop in July and after Bankman-Fried's FTX problems first came to light early last month.
Alternative currencies outside of the top 20 tokens by market capitalization saw slight changes as well, except for toncoin (TON), which fell 5% over the past 24 hours, and luna classic (LUNC), which dropped 7%.
Meanwhile, premarket futures for the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 and S&P 500 both inched 0.5% higher, pointing to possible gains when the U.S. markets open on Thursday.
UPDATE (Dec. 29, 10:03 UTC): Adds SOL's streak of declines in fourth paragraph."
268,227,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/30/ftx-congress-stablecoins-what-2023-may-bring-for-crypto-regulations/,"FTX, Congress, Stablecoins: What 2023 May Bring for Crypto Regulations",CoinDesk’s policy team predicts the issues and topics that may take center stage over the next 12 months.,2022-12-30,"Can you believe this year started off with U.S. law enforcement officials arresting two individuals in connection with the 2016 Bitfinex hacked funds? For this week’s newsletter, the 102nd since we first launched in 2021, I asked CoinDesk’s Policy Team what they’re looking out for this upcoming year.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
CoinDesk’s regulation team lays out what we’re looking at this upcoming year.
Crypto’s growing stature in the world will draw increasing amounts of attention from regulators.
Nikhilesh De (U.S.): This year did not play out quite as expected. While the idea that the bull market would end and a new crypto winter would hit was understood and expected, the sheer scale of this year’s failures seemed to catch a lot of people by surprise.
Next year will not, I suspect, be pretty. Cheyenne Ligon gets into this as well a bit further down, but as the current bankruptcy cases advance and possible new bankruptcies arise, the industry will have to deal more and more with a lot of questions around user privacy and consumer protections.
Whether crypto exchange customers can expect their personal information to remain redacted, should the provider enter bankruptcy, will continue to be a growing question for courts. This year we saw that question arise with companies like Celsius and FTX. Judges initially allowed the companies to file their creditors’ information under seal, but Celsius later released the names and holdings of all of its customers, while FTX is currently going through hearings about the same issue.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may also be gearing up to force exchanges into compliance with existing rules. SEC Chair Gary Gensler has long said he believes his agency has the authority it needs to regulate crypto companies, and that the law is clear in his view that most cryptocurrencies are securities and therefore more crypto exchanges are securities trading platforms. More recently, the SEC has suggested that it may be moving closer to actually doing something about this; Enforcement Director Gurbir Grewal said the runway for crypto companies is getting shorter, and the collapse of FTX has heightened the pressure for regulators to get a hold of this industry before something else falls apart.
I don’t expect too much in the way of legislative activity. While I know we’ll see additional bills introduced, including the highly anticipated stablecoin legislation from the House Financial Services Committee, the bigger question remains whether there will be enough bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate to actually pass anything into law. Jesse Hamilton provides his own view on legislation further down.
That being said, it’s hard to say this year was anything but a black mark for the industry in the eyes of regulators. The collapse of Terra/Luna, the bankruptcies of basically the entire crypto lender sector (minus Nexo, which still ended up leaving the U.S.), the meltdown of FTX (the largest exchange failure in years) – these are all events that will pressure regulators worldwide. The Facebook (now Meta)-led Libra (later Diem) project and the global backlash to it tells us how regulators may respond as well. It may not be a quick response, but years after Facebook first introduced Libra, lawmakers from different nations developed stablecoin regulations to rein in the sector. I suspect we’ll see a similar response in reaction to this year’s events.
Sandali Handagama (EMEA): This past year did not just test the prowess of global crypto companies and markets, but also the relatively new regulatory frameworks designed to govern the space. As high profile entities from Terraform Labs to FTX fell one after the other, the regulators they were linked to, be it in the Bahamas or Singapore, were also put on the spot.
Singapore, which boasted a sophisticated regulatory regime for crypto firms, faced tough questions on how its central bank decided which platforms were safe for investors after it flagged rival exchange Binance but not the now-bankrupt FTX.
In the European Union, lawmakers questioned if their landmark Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) framework, hailed as a global standard for crypto regulation, could really prevent an FTX-style collapse, which had over 100 entities operating in multiple jurisdictions while registered in the Bahamas.
The cross-border nature of crypto warrants global cooperation on regulations, international bodies like the International Monetary Fund and the Financial Stability Board have said. The push for global standards for crypto only intensified as the markets went from bad to worse this year. In 2023, we’ll hear more about a global push for oversight and perhaps watch international leaders tackle a tougher question – are regulations enough?
Jesse Hamilton (U.S.): If crypto has a future as a widespread, commonly exchanged asset, that future could be decided this year in Washington, D.C.
The policy work is coming to a head, including with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s eventual decision on whether the government should step into the field with a digital dollar and a number of legislative efforts that could finally set down national rules for stablecoins and crypto trading that will secure a place for digital assets in the U.S. financial system. That comes with a price, of course, and it may be too high for some in the industry.
This regulatory reckoning comes as many U.S. lawmakers and the heads of agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are particularly skeptical about the way things are run in crypto world, and the latest crisis with FTX could mean more stringent oversight than what lawmakers contemplated in the first few bills that started the debate. Meanwhile, if the SEC retains the authority to define what makes a token a security (and so far, Chair Gary Gensler says most of them are), that agency will hold token issuers and exchanges to existing securities law, which never foresaw decentralized crypto assets.
The new Congress may take a while to settle in during 2023, so it could be months before the Senate (still controlled by Democrats) and the House of Representatives (newly piloted by Republicans) will find common ground on crypto. The effort that may be farthest along is the House Financial Services Committee’s bipartisan stablecoin regulation bill, so that relatively narrow legislation could test whether crypto is among the limited range of issues that a divided government can move forward on. The two parties, several committees and a lot of crypto-doubting lawmakers have to be brought together before the industry can finally get more comprehensive regulation.
While Congress works on that, U.S. financial agency chiefs who make up the Financial Stability Oversight Council could use that group’s powers to formally declare crypto activities such as stablecoins as systemically important, which could give the Fed or others some regulatory authority there. And apart from the onset of significant enforcement actions likely coming from the SEC in 2023, lesser-known agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could also start imposing their powers over the financial products offered by crypto firms.
Cheyenne Ligon (U.S.): The spectacular downfall of FTX in November – which saw the world’s second-largest crypto exchange reduced to rubble in little more than a week – was certainly the largest and most shocking failure of 2022, but it was far from this year’s only crypto collapse.
The FTX drama has had the secondary effect of drawing attention away from the failures that came before it – including the depegging and subsequent implosion of algorithmic stablecoin issuer Terra, the $10 billion wipeout of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and a wave of other crypto bankruptcies including Celsius Network and Voyager Digital.
FTX’s collapse – and the fall from grace of its former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, who is now facing criminal fraud charges for his role in the alleged scheme – has also overshadowed subsequent bankruptcies (like BlockFi’s) in the wake of its spreading contagion.
The knock-on effects of that contagion has also caused several other major crypto companies including Nexo, Gemini, and Genesis (a sister company of CoinDesk) to wobble while FTX continues to steal the spotlight.
Though 2022 was a major year for crypto bankruptcies, the momentum shows no signs of slowing in 2023. The bankruptcy process is often slow and painstaking, and the bankruptcies that began in 2023 will stretch well into 2023 and perhaps beyond. And, if the dominoes continue to fall (and they almost certainly will), still more crypto companies will join them.
Camomile Shumba (UK): The U.K. was a big story with the political and regulatory turmoil putting into question the crypto hub plans Prime Minister Rishi Sunak set out when he was finance minister. It’s unclear if the political storm has passed with many calling for an early general election which could result in Labour – the current favorite party to win, who may not be as crypto friendly as the current ruling Tory Party – taking charge.
What also is unclear is whether the country's crypto hub ambitions have any real standing when its financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has a strict stance when it comes to crypto. CEO Nikhil Rathi told lawmakers in a meeting that the FCA had turned away 85% of the crypto companies that tried to register with it to operate in the country.
The Financial Services and Markets bill, which is still being debated in Parliament, will give the FCA powers to regulate crypto and how these companies advertise to U.K. clients. The U.K. government’s finance arm, the Treasury, will set out how best to regulate the industry, beginning with a public consultation. How all this unfolds will indicate how crypto friendly the U.K. will be.
Lavender Au (APAC): Regulatory frameworks are starting to firm up in Asia. This year, Hong Kong passed its licensing regime on exchanges and South Korea put together a bill to govern digital assets. 2022 was also a year of adjustments. Japan committed to relaxing tax regulations, which effectively made it impossible to issue tokens in the country. Singapore considered tightening regulations to reduce risk to retail investors.
Strict regulations in the region also mean there’s business in finding ways to dodge them. Investors in Japan use gray OTC channels to avoid high taxes. China’s investors continue to onramp — an estimated 8% of FTX users were based in the country, according to a chart shown at its first bankruptcy hearing.
As in other regions, the collapses of Luna and FTX added urgency to regulatory efforts. Next year, Asian regulators will issue regulatory frameworks on stablecoins. Soft consultations in Hong Kong will continue on requirements for allowing retail to invest. Both Japan and Singapore have indicated that they are looking into regulating DeFi.
This year, to enter local markets, exchanges with a global presence have snapped up smaller local regulated exchanges (see Binance’s acquisition of Sakura in Japan and Tokocrypto in Indonesia). More mergers and acquisitions are likely in 2023, as larger players look to snap up more local players.
Jack Schickler (EU): The Markets in Crypto Assets law made the European Union the first major jurisdiction with a legal framework for the sector. As various shocks hit in 2022, EU regulators vaunted their new consumer protection and financial stability rules – which, they said, ensure stablecoins have decent reserves (side-eye to terraUSD) and that crypto exchanges are properly governed (I’m looking at you, FTX).
2023 presents a fork in the road for crypto companies. Register with authorities under MiCA, and you get legitimacy: the right to advertise within the bloc, official approval to persuade people you aren’t the next FTX, connections to traditional finance that helps onramp new clients.
But if an exchange or wallet provider doesn’t want to jump through all those regulatory hoops, it can still sell crypto in the EU by a loophole known as reverse solicitation. Offshore providers could also offer less scrupulous clients tempting extra features, like not reporting their holdings to EU tax authorities.
Lately the trend seemed to be in favor of increasing regulatory compliance; Binance, which once boasted that it had no headquarters, has now set up entities in Cyprus, France, Spain and Italy as it prepares for MiCA to take effect in 2024. But crypto companies will all be looking over their shoulders as they take decisions: no company wants its competitors to be getting an unfair advantage. Which way will they jump?
Amitoj Singh (India): In 2023, Indian crypto enthusiasts will have their eyes on three major events.
First, the annual budget announcement, which could see India change its crypto taxation policy. A 30% tax on crypto profits and a 1% tax deducted at source (TDS) on all transactions, among other macroeconomic factors, had a brutal impact on trading in India. The industry has asked the government to reconsider these rules.
Second, India will host the Group of 20 (G-20) nations in September 2023 in New Delhi. When India assumed the G-20 presidency in Dec. 2022, it stated that framing globally coordinated crypto rules would be a priority. Deliberations between the G-20 nations have begun and will culminate during the summit with the expectation that the world’s largest economies settle on a globally acceptable crypto regulation framework.
Third, the nation’s central bank hopes to launch its CBDC on a full scale by the end of 2023. Currently, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has commenced its pilot in four cities with the participation of four major cities. The pilot's progress will determine the future of India’s digital rupee and potentially contribute to the globally acceptable standards around the use cases of CBDCs.
A year ago, I asked my team – then the newly created regulatory team at CoinDesk – what everyone would monitor over the course of 2022.
Sandali Handagama highlighted the European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets framework, which lawmakers advanced this year. Elsewhere, a digital euro is still under discussion but is still a ways from realization.
Cheyenne Ligon said she expected to see “an uptick in the number of criminal probes” tied to crypto, alongside other court cases such as the sentencing of Ethereum developer Virgil Griffith. We did indeed see a rise in the profiles of SEC and CFTC enforcement actions, including the SEC explicitly calling several cryptocurrencies securities in an enforcement action against a former Coinbase employee and the CFTC going so far as to sue an entire DAO in an ongoing matter.
Lavender Au said South Korea’s presidential election could lead to a change in how the country approaches digital assets. Japan is similarly advancing its efforts to better understand and legislate cryptocurrencies, like stablecoins, while Hong Kong’s government is seeking to draw in new crypto businesses.
Amitoj Singh said he would watch for how India tried to mitigate crypto risks and tax rules, just ahead of India implementing a fairly strict tax regime that appears to have actually impacted the entire industry within India.
Last year I said I was looking at stablecoin regulation and the bipartisan infrastructure law, as well as whether regulators would act decisively.
We heard about bipartisan stablecoin legislation that seems almost certain to be debated and discussed in the new Congress, even as it fell short of introduction this year.
I also wrote, “Will one of these agencies issue guidance for startups trying to launch in the U.S.? Or will 2022 be a repeat of 2021 and 2020 and 2019 and so on where we hear speeches and see enforcement actions but not much more.”
I guess we have our answer.
N/A
(The Verge) Hackers stole customer vault data in a recent breach of password managing service LastPass. If you use it, you may want to look into updating some passwords. Like now.
(Politico) Southwest Airlines had a historically awful Christmas, canceling thousands of flights and still dealing with the effects of Winter Storm Elliot. Congress is probably going to have a look.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
269,36,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/30/first-mover-asia-3-crypto-predictions-for-2023-from-digital-manager-3iqs-research-head/,First Mover Asia: 3 Crypto Predictions for 2023 From Digital Asset Manager 3iQ's Research Head,Mark Connors sees a rebound in digital prices by the third quarter and companies increasing their involvement in developing regulation. ALSO: Bitcoin would just as soon forget acquaintances auld and new to 2022.,2022-12-30,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Three days before the close of 2022, bitcoin inched proudly upward. Solana continued to tailspin before erasing losses late in the day, while other cryptos were mixed.
Insights: Mark Connors, head of research for digital asset manager 3iQ, sees a crypto rebound by the third quarter of 2023 and financial services firms and others playing a more proactive role in the development of regulation.
Bitcoin Remains Defiant at the Close of a Dreadful Year
By James Rubin
On the third to last day of a historically, massively, tragically bad year, bitcoin held its head proudly if barely above water.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just above $16,630, up a few fractions of a percentage point over the past 24 hours. BTC has now been balancing roughly between $16,400 and $17,000 for 13 days amid investor sluggishness typical for a year's closing days. Crypto markets would also rather forget acquaintances – auld and new – to 2022 even as they gird for more rough times ahead in 2023.
""Bitcoin continues to happily tread water and watch the storm pass as it fluctuates in a range of around $16,000-$17,000,"" wrote Craig Erlam, senior markets editor for foreign exchange market maker Oanda, in an email. ""That's broadly been the case over the last couple of weeks and it doesn't look like changing in the coming days, barring any unexpected headlines.""
Erlam added: ""The question for many now is whether it has bottomed and how long it will take confidence to return, enabling a strong recovery. I'm not convinced by either in the near term and think there are plenty more twists and turns to come early next year.""
Ether was recently changing hands slightly below $1,200 but up 0.8% from Wednesday, same time. Other major cryptos were mixed with ETC, the token of the Ethereum Classic blockchain project, rising about 4% and popular meme coin SHIB up nearly 3%, but SOL's sad saga continuing, with the token of the embattled Solana blockchain, plummeting more than 12% at one point. SOL erased those losses after Ethereum co-founder Vitalik tweeted his support for the platform, but has dropped almost 20% over the past week from over $12 to nearly $9.70, and is off more than 90% since Jan. 1. SOL's decline has largely stemmed from Solana's ties to the collapses of the Terra ecosystem and crypto exchange FTX.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, recently jumped 0.21%.
Equity indexes closed 2022's penultimate trading day on a high with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 climbing 2.6% and 1.7%, respectively. The S&P notched its biggest gains in a month. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) rose 1%. Investors remain wary about China's retreat from Covid lockdown, which could jolt its stagnant economic growth but also raise global, energy prices.
Security remains a key issue for the crypto industry. In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program on Thursday, Ari Redbord, head of legal and government affairs at crypto sleuthing firm TRM Labs, said that cracking down on crypto hacks will require hardening cyber defenses. The former U.S. Justice Department prosecutor said that finding strategies to identify and trace illicit activity will mean developing better “blockchain intelligence tools” that can identify new mixers before bad actors can get to them.
According to TRM Labs, more than $3.6 billion in funds have been drained in crypto this year. About 80%, or roughly $3 billion, targeted decentralized finance (DeFi)
Earlier in the program, CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Andrew Baehr, said that although bitcoin's value declined about 64% year-to-date, CoinDesk research showed that BTC and ETH returns in 2022 per unit of risk were about the same as equities and significantly better than bonds.
““We want to underscore this is not too different from what you would see in traditional markets, especially stock markets,"" Baehr said. ""Look at some of the darlings that people were really excited about 18 months ago in stocks, they’ve lost 80-90% of their value as well.”
Fund Manager 3iQ Has 3 Bold Predictions for 2023
By James Rubin
A year ago, before the crumbling of the Terra ecosystem, the implosion of Three Arrows Capital and crypto lending platform Celsius and disgrace of exchange giant FTX, who could have foreseen that the digital asset industry would be limping home in 2022. A year ago, bitcoin was still percolating over $47,000 and seemed likely to remain unruffled by the economic headwinds already buffeting the world.
What's in store in 2023?
In an interview with CoinDesk, Mark Connors, head of research for Canadian crypto asset manager, said he expects a price rebound in 2023 and TradFi companies and others to play a more active role not only in finding uses for blockchain technology but in the development of regulation. ""Leadership will come from the corporate side, not the regulatory side,"" Connors said.
CoinDesk: What's your first prediction for 2023?
Connors: Leadership will come from the corporate side, not the regulatory side. We're looking for regulatory clarity so that investment firms can own coins and invest in existing Layer 1s. Whether whether it be bitcoin, Ethereum or Layer 1s, we believe the incentive structures of companies will make them take a leadership role and act and not wait for legislation to both continue to create their own industry blockchains as well as leverage the existing Ethereum EVM, and to a lesser degree, the bitcoin blockchain as they transfer both B2B and B2C functionality to blockchains. That was the most silent, underreported action in 2022. TradFi is going to lead the charge, not native crypto and not regulatory agencies. That's going to be the curveball.
CoinDesk: What else do you foresee for the year ahead?
Connors: 2023 will be a barbell for digital assets. It will be the core Layer 1s, Bitcoin, Ethereum, and it will be the use of NFTs by TradFi companies, which is a corollary to my first point. In 2022, the ecosystem was you had your alt level ones like Solana, Algorand and the like providing the bulk of the non-Bitcoin, Etherium, stablecoin market cap. Seventy percent of market cap in digital assets of the last 12 months. So that 30% of market cap is going to shift from alt level ones and level twos and other projects to be more NFT related. The NFT technology from a security and verification standpoint has greater integrity, and a higher trust and security factor. Given it can be nested with the Etherium ecosystem and can be bridged, it will have functionality and security. I think you'll see the most growth in NFTs.
CoinDesk: What's going to happen to crypto prices? Do you see a rebound, and if so, when?
Connors: We are so dollar based. Dollar strength destroys risk assets. The Fed has two mandates, price stability and full employment. But they have taken on a third mandate. They have a trilemma, which is wonderful because no economic system can run on two poles. My third prediction is that before the third quarter, the Fed will stop quantitative tightening. They will stop because the Treasury market would have experienced a failure like September 2019. Money markets will crack, the Fed will print and crypto will reverse as sharply as it did in March 2020. We're still young as a market. We don't conrol our own destiny on price and adoption.
2:45 p.m. HKT/SGT(6:45 a.m. UTC): Chicago Purchasing Managers' Index (Dec.)
6 p.m. HKT/SGT(10 a.m. UTC): Baker Hughes U.S. Oil Rig Count
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Alameda Research Liquidates Ether-Based Holdings for Bitcoin; A Silver Lining in BTC and ETH Performance
""First Mover"" dives into the day's top stories, including the sudden sale of several tokens held by Alameda Research worth some $1.7 million. On-chain data shows the ether-based token holdings were liquidated in a span of just a few hours and ultimately exchanged for bitcoin. Plus, CoinDesk Managing Director Andrew Baehr discussed a silver lining in the past year's performance of BTC and ETH. And, Ovie Faruq (aka OSF) NFT artist joined CoinDesk reporter Eli Tan to discuss the state of the NFT market.
Step Aside, Ethereum: Blockchain Project Stacks Wants to Bring Smart Contracts to Bitcoin: The project claims its Bitcoin sidechain can unlock “hundreds of billions of dollars” in DeFi on bitcoin.
Bitcoin, Ether Did Better Than You Think in 2022: CoinDesk research shows that per unit of risk, bitcoin and ether performed significantly better than bonds and had similar results to equities in 2022.
It’s Been a Year Since NFTs Exploded. Where Are We Headed?: For NFT collectors and creators, this past year marked noticeable changes within the market. From utility to community building, here are just a few trends that will push the space forward in 2023.
DeFi Platforms Need to Beef Up Security, Former Prosecutor Says: Ari Redbord, who now works at crypto sleuthing firm TRM Labs, says attackers are becoming more sophisticated.
UPDATE (Dec. 29, 2022, 1:44 UTC): Updates SOL price and related information."
270,39,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/12/30/5-lessons-from-2022-that-changed-crypto-forever/,5 Lessons From 2022 That Changed Crypto Forever,"Yes, this is that classic newsroom fallback for staff-depleted holiday periods: the year-in-review listicle. But whereas in other years that might seem a little dull, a cop-out even, this one is different. This time we’re talking about 2022, the year that changed crypto forever.",2022-12-30,"For many people, myself included, who were drawn to cryptocurrencies by the prospect of fixing or replacing an exclusionary, extractive, outdated global financial system, the failure in crypto markets this past year has delivered an extremely cold bath.
Now, to be clear, most of the massive financial hit to investors was not due to a failure of technology.
For the Bitcoin blockchain, for example, none of the drama of the past year matters. Every 10 minutes, day in, day out, it adds a block of transactions to its ever-growing ledger. It’s a reminder that the global, decentralized networks of computers running Bitcoin, Ethereum and other permissionless blockchain’s protocols continue to forge systems for intermediary-free value exchange with which no one person or entity can interfere, regardless of the ups and downs of markets. The presence and persistence of these vast autonomous machines continue to leave me awestruck.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
But “crypto” is more than protocols, smart contracts and cryptography. It’s also the community of humans who have gathered around this amalgam of technologies. Without this community, the technology can’t enter real-world adoption and foster change for good. And unfortunately, the failures in 2022 were due to their actions. While a few people in particular are rightly lumped with the bulk of the blame, there is mass collective responsibility here. The theft, deception and staggering breach of trust happened on our watch.
If we are to take lessons from the wealth destruction of 2022, the conclusion cannot be that this is all the fault of Sam Bankman-Fried and his ilk. SBF deserves the prison time he seems sure to receive with his extradition to the U.S., but the real question is how do we create a system – not merely a technological system but one of laws and standards – that makes it much harder for people like him to do what they did.
There is much work to do to build that system in 2023 and beyond. But it starts with the lessons of 2022. There are many. Here are the five that I think are the most important:
With all the headlines generated by the collapse of FTX in November, it’s easy to forget that far bigger losses hit cryptocurrency markets in the first months of the year – not because of a crypto-endemic scandal but because the Federal Reserve was hiking interest rates. That put an end to the surfeit of dollars pouring into speculative assets around the world, including cryptocurrencies. The macro environment matters.
The domino effect, seen when the failure of one crypto institution quickly spreads to another, is hardly without precedent. It was there in the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 1998 Long-Term Capital Management collapse, the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis and many other such moments in financial history. They all had the same characteristics: an overly bullish belief in the upward momentum of financial assets fueled an excessive buildup of loans to speculators. When those beliefs proved unfounded, the rush to the exits exposed an interdependent network of creditors and debtors as they dragged each other down in unison. Crypto speculation was never going to be immune from this, regardless of the decentralized nature of the underlying protocols.
Most of the high-profile collapses in 2022 – FTX, Celsius Network, Voyager Digital, Three Arrows Capital, Genesis – involved custody-holding CeFi (centralized finance) companies that put customer funds at risk. That has galvanized supporters of DeFi (decentralized finance), who rightly note that the most robust decentralized market-making and exchange systems survived, precisely because they lack a trusted intermediary capable of such abuse. (Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group, which is also CoinDesk's parent company.)
Yet as of October, Chainalysis estimated that DeFi investors had lost a record $3 billion year to date because of smart contract breaches, “rug pulls” by founders, and because the underlying tokenomics of some protocols were deeply flawed. (The destructive collapse in the Terra ecosystem was exemplary of the latter instance.) DeFi is a wild, volatile, confusing, unpredictable place. To achieve widespread participation, it needs a more comprehensive audit model in which trustworthy independent analysts or bounty-hunting developers assess projects’ code security, founder practices and tokenomics.
In 2020 and 2021, when social media-driven meme coins were turning kids into instant millionaires, when DeFi projects were paying yields unavailable anywhere else in the world and when institutional and retail investment sent crypto’s market capitalization up 15-fold to almost reach $3 trillion, we should all have been asking tougher questions. The most important one should have been: what’s underpinning all this?
If we peel back the layers of interlocking protocols and the justifications for the returns they were promising, we’re left with little more than speculation for speculation’s sake. Most of that was built on momentum trading, on “numbers-go-up” expectations. It’s time to get back to basics and seek out real-world utility. Token returns need to point back to actual value cases, whether its cross-border payments, decentralized energy, new marketing models offered by non-fungible tokens (NFTs) or one of many other promising use cases.
Sure, this one’s self-interested, but 2022 proved it to be undeniably true that this industry needs a robust “Fourth Estate” to hold accountable the people and entities working within it. Permissionless blockchains should be viewed as public goods – much as the air we breathe, the water we drink or the highways we drive on are public goods. They must be protected as such, which means there must be transparency (balanced with a respect for individual privacy). And while we are all enormously proud of the catalytic role CoinDesk played in exposing the FTX house of cards, it raises the question of why this wasn’t caught earlier. Answer: There aren’t enough crypto-savvy, professionally managed, independence-protected journalists covering this market. (That’s why we got those naive softball articles from the New York Times and others that glossed over SBF’s fraudulent behavior and got my colleague David Morris fired up.)
Still, here’s a hill I will die on: The requisite transparency isn't something that can be achieved solely through the work of “citizen journalists” on Twitter or elsewhere. Those who claim the FTX debacle was brought to the fore by crowd-sourcing the sleuthing work of ordinary people on social media ignore the fact that the meltdown was triggered by an investigative article by Ian Allison, a trained journalist working within the structure of a professionally run newsroom, with editors and management who have carved out a position of independence from their proprietor to earn the trust of their readers. (CoinDesk is a subsidiary of DCG but operates independently and abides by a core code of ethics.) Before Ian’s piece, where was all that Twitter wisdom-of-the-crowd discovery?
If this industry is to thrive it can’t again be blindsided by revelations of wrongdoing as extreme as those uncovered in 2022. That requires vigilance to transparency and recognition that journalists who dig into issues at relevant institutions are doing a service to the longer-term interests of this industry rather than undermining it."