,id,URL,Title,Subtitle,Date,Main_Content
0,1217,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/01/04/kevin-oleary-backed-defi-platform-wonderfi-to-purchase-bitbuy-for-162m-in-cash-shares/,"Kevin O’Leary-Backed DeFi Platform WonderFi to Purchase Bitbuy for $162M in Cash, Shares","The deal gives WonderFi one of Canada’s fastest-growing crypto platforms, adding 375,000 registered users.",2022-01-04,"DeFi platform WonderFi Technologies Inc. agreed to buy Canadian crypto exchange Bitbuy for C$206 million ($161.8 million) in cash and shares, bringing the ability to purchase crypto and access to decentralized finance (DeFi) under one roof.
WonderFi will pay with 70 million new shares and C$50 million ($39 million) in cash, the company said in a statement Tuesday.
The deal gives WonderFi one of Canada’s fastest-growing crypto platforms, adding 375,000 registered users. The combination will allow it to provide retail customers with an integrated system for buying and investing crypto as it seeks to become an end-to-end consumer platform.
“A licensed marketplace serves as a crucial gateway to the digital asset economy, and facilitates a robust end-to-end, unified client experience,” WonderFi CEO Ben Samaroo said in the statement. “The integration of Bitbuy’s product suite will accelerate and expand the reach and scope that WonderFi can offer to the market, and will drive long-term growth and value.”
Vancouver-based WonderFi closed a financing round in June that included strategic investor Kevin O’Leary. The company rebranded to WonderFi from Defi Ventures in a nod to O’Leary’s nickname as “Mr. Wonderful” from television shows “Shark Tank” and “Dragon’s Den.” WonderFi also credits the billionaire founder of crypto exchange FTX, Sam Bankman-Fried, as a strategic investor, according to its latest presentation.
O’Leary has been an advocate for crypto in recent months and said in a 2022 outlook that his largest position is in ether, the token of the Ethereum blockchain. He also said he owns Polygon (MATIC) and Solana, in addition to bitcoin.
WonderFi is publicly listed on Canada’s NEO Exchange under stock ticker WNDR. The shares rose as much as 13% in early trading, giving the company a market cap of about C$188 million ($148 million).
Bobby Halpern, principal of Toronto-based Halpern & Co., acquired Bitbuy toward the beginning of 2018, when the exchange had about 500 customers and bitcoin prices were crashing. The company generated over C$31 million ($24 million) in revenue during the 12-month period ended Sept. 30, according to the statement.
Read more: Down More than 70% in 2018, Bitcoin Closes Its Worst Year on Record
The deal is expected to close in the first quarter, with Bitbuy’s president and chief financial officer, Dean Skurka, set to join WonderFi’s board. WonderFi first announced a strategic investment in Bitbuy’s parent company, First Ledger Corp., in December for an undisclosed amount.
Investment bank Haywood Securities gave a fairness opinion to WonderFi’s board on the deal, while Canaccord Genuity is the financial adviser to Bitbuy.
UPDATE (Jan. 4, 13:00 UTC): Changes photo to one of the Bitbuy team.
UPDATE (Jan. 4, 15:24 UTC): Adds reason in first and third paragraphs, link to statement in second; replaces quote in fourth; updates share price."
1,1224,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/01/05/nft-marketplace-opensea-valued-at-133b-in-300m-funding-round-report/,NFT Marketplace OpenSea Valued at $13.3B in $300M Funding Round,The ubiquitous NFT site was valued at $1.5 billion last July.,2022-01-05,"Paradigm and Coatue led a $300 million investment that cements NFT marketplace OpenSea as one of the most valuable private firms in crypto.
OpenSea said Tuesday night that investors valued the company at $13.3 billion in the Series C funding round, up sharply from the startup’s $1.5 billion valuation in a $100 million Series B round announced last July. The New York Times was first to report the news.
Tuesday’s big numbers show how rapidly OpenSea has ensconced itself as the leading venue for trading non-fungible tokens. The firm said in a blog post it plans to use the funding for product development, hiring and startup investments and to “significantly improve customer support and customer safety.”
Despite some high-profile user blunders, business has been brisk for OpenSea. In the last 30 days alone, the marketplace for prized profile pics and other digital collectibles logged 1.6 million transactions on the Ethereum blockchain and a trading volume of $2.4 billion, according to data compiled by DappRadar.
The company was founded by Devin Finzer and Alex Atallah in 2017, well before NFTs had captured mainstream interest. CoinDesk’s first piece on OpenSea – for a $2 million funding round led by crypto venture capital firm 1confirmation – called it “an eBay for CryptoKitties.”
“Devin and Alex have shown true grit over the last four years, weathering uncertainty and sticking to their vision of NFTs as an internet- and world-changing primitive,” Paradigm Managing Partner Fred Ehrsam told CoinDesk via email.
OpenSea’s latest round is another sign of the boom times in crypto venture capital, with over $30 billion in investments flowing into crypto startups in 2021.
Bigger valuations have been had in recent months. For comparison, FTX’s funding round in October valued the crypto exchange at a whopping $25 billion.
However, OpenSea may be the king of the NFTs. Dapper Labs, the firm behind NBA Top Shot and the Flow blockchain, nabbed a $7.6 billion valuation in September in another round led by Coatue.
A request for comment sent to OpenSea wasn’t returned by press time.
Katie Haun, until recently a partner at Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), participated in the OpenSea round through her new firm, KRH, a spokesperson said via email. That confirms an earlier report Tuesday from tech reporter Eric Newcomer that the funding round with Haun’s involvement was in the works.
Haun led both OpenSea’s Series A and Series B funding rounds in 2021 while she was with a16z and sits on the NFT company’s board of directors.
UPDATE (Jan. 5, 2:26 UTC): Adds Katie Haun’s involvement.
UPDATE (Jan. 5, 3:08 UTC): Adds OpenSea’s confirmation and a statement from Paradigm’s Fred Ehrsam."
2,1223,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/01/06/what-really-mattered-to-crypto-markets-in-2021/,What Really Mattered to Crypto Markets in 2021,The CoinDesk Research Annual Crypto Review for 2021 examines some of the key themes and metrics that marked the year’s progress in cryptocurrency markets.,2022-01-06,"Thanks to 2021, most people have at least heard of crypto by now – not just Bitcoin and Ethereum, but altcoins like DOGE and SHIB, as well as terms like NFTs and the metaverse.
In CoinDesk Research’s 2021 Annual Crypto Review, we aim to summarize some of the key themes and metrics that marked the past year’s progress in cryptocurrency markets.
Read the full CoinDesk Research 2021 Annual Crypto Review here.
As with all financial assets, market performance is usually the first thing that comes to mind when considering a “year in review.” Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), the two largest cryptocurrencies by market cap, posted gains well in excess of traditional macro assets, gaining 60% and 407%, respectively.
While ether, the native asset of the Ethereum blockchain, still has a way to go before traditional investors begin to form their investment thesis, bitcoin cemented itself in the minds of all professional investors, as it eclipsed $1 trillion in market capitalization in 2021. What’s more, bitcoin also remained uncorrelated with all macro assets, which could make for an interesting value proposition for the asset as managers look to approach their portfolio construction in 2022. That said, bitcoin’s correlation with the S&P 500 ticked up in the fourth quarter, suggesting that investors are trading bitcoin and equities together as risk-on assets.
Outside of market performance, 2021 was a big year for Bitcoin from an adoption and technological standpoint. In June, El Salvador announced that bitcoin would become legal tender; that declaration came to fruition in September when a law that stipulated that bitcoin must be accepted as a form of payment everywhere in the country went into effect.
With that came multiple bitcoin purchases by the government, carried out from the president’s cellphone. Meanwhile, a free $30 worth of bitcoin was sent to Salvadorans who signed up to use Chivo, the country’s official bitcoin wallet, and a commitment was made to use the Lightning Network, the commerce layer for Bitcoin (read more here), to enable a more frictionless bitcoin economy. The amount of bitcoin committed to the Lightning Network grew incredibly fast in 2021, injecting renewed life into the digital cash use case for Bitcoin.
2021 also marked the year of an important technological upgrade to the Bitcoin protocol known as Taproot (read more here). Taproot is a bundle of three upgrades that improves network security, privacy and scalability. Taproot is the most significant upgrade to the Bitcoin network since the activation of the block capacity enhancement of Segregated Witness in 2017. Taproot was a reminder that Bitcoin is a technology that can change in order to improve usability and user experience. Taproot’s success in the future will stand as a demonstration that Bitcoin can adapt.
With ether’s superior asset price performance compared with bitcoin, it’s no surprise that bitcoin dominance, the measure of BTC market capitalization compared with the market capitalization of all digital assets, fell during 2021 from 70.2% to 40.1%. ETH is not the sole reason for bitcoin shedding its dominance; rather, crypto projects have sprung up with many different use cases that are not competing directly with Bitcoin.
Ethereum has had major catalysts from EIP 1559 to the impending transition to proof-of-stake. Both events play important roles not only in the growth of Ethereum as a technology, but also in developing a narrative for Ethereum’s native asset. EIP 1559 solidified ether’s role as “gas” within the ecosystem, demanding that the asset be used and burned in exchange for building on or interacting with the network. The “Merge” to proof-of-stake is an attempt to create a secure, more scalable smart contract network without the need for miners and significant energy consumption.
Ethereum was the catalyst for the initial coin offering boom and bust in 2017/8 and out of the embers came the first wave of decentralized finance (DeFi). During 2019 and 2020, Ethereum-based projects such as Aave (formerly Lend), Compound and Uniswap found their footing. Using the crypto bull market and liquidity mining (token incentives) as fuel, DeFi projects were able to acquire billions of dollars in liquidity for efficient decentralized lending and trading markets.
Ethereum can also credit a sizable portion of its upswing to the rise of non-fungible tokens (NFTs), which brought the protocol into the mainstream. NFTs are unique tokens that can act as digital representations of physical items or digitally native items whose proof of ownership can be verified on a public blockchain. As such, NFTs attempt to stand in as the first iteration of digital ownership of collectibles on a blockchain. OpenSea was the darling of the NFT sector in 2021, bringing a digital art marketplace to retail investors.
Inside the world of institutions and regulation, capital poured into blockchain and crypto companies. According to data from Blockdata, $23 billion of funding reached these companies in 2021, which is more than the total amount raised from 2017 to 2020. We even saw a $1 billion capital raise in December for crypto financial services firm NYDIG, and crypto exchange FTX raised more than $1 billion across two funding rounds.
From a regulatory perspective, governments across the world are taking crypto seriously. We have seen China ban bitcoin mining and crypto trading outright. India and Nigeria have tried to do the same. The Bank of England said in a Financial Stability Report that the growth of crypto assets poses a potential threat as it becomes increasingly linked to wider financial networks.
The word “crypto” even echoed in the halls of Congress as a $1 trillion infrastructure bill was held up in part due to a crypto tax-reporting provision. Regulators’ involvement in and discussion of crypto is indicative of the widespread belief that crypto is here to stay and therefore should be regulated to “keep citizens safe.”
Overall, 2021 was an extraordinary year for the cryptocurrency and blockchain industry. Read the full report here."
3,832,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/01/06/will-daos-replace-crypto-venture-capital/,Will DAOs Replace Crypto Venture Capital?,"Amid backlash over venture capital firms, decentralized autonomous organizations are emerging as a community-bootstrapped way to fund crypto projects.",2022-01-06,"Decentralized autonomous organizations, or DAOs, have recently formed to try to buy the U.S. Constitution and a professionally certified golf course.
Now they are organizing to deploy capital into cryptocurrency startup companies, potentially disrupting the venture capital funding model that has financed waves of new technologies for generations.
Crypto investment-focused DAOs have become the new arena for sourcing deals, meeting company founders and cutting checks – all functions that were typically done by well-heeled venture capitalists who prided themselves on their industry-insider status.
“We’re trying to democratize crypto investing and provide access to those that never had such access,” said Joyce Yang, founder of Global Coin Research, a DAO that “aims to disrupt the VC model.”
DAOs are blockchain-based organizations that are decentralized and unregulated in the traditional sense, often governed by a native crypto token.
In the past year, DAOs have sprung up with weed-like vigor, surpassing 1.6 million in membership in December, up 130-fold from just 13,000 members last January, according to DAO data provider DeepDAO.
But for funding new tech companies, DAOs are a hitherto untested model, partly because venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz and Paradigm have so thoroughly dominated the business of funding entrepreneurs in crypto and other fast-emerging technologies.
Enter “investment DAOs,” which are collectives of crypto-enthused individuals capable of investing their personal capital or directing portions of the DAO’s treasury into early-stage crypto startups.
Typically, membership in an investment-focused DAO involves an upfront buy-in in the form of the DAO’s governance token in exchange for access to private spaces – invite-only Discord chats, Telegram groups or in-person events – where deals can be sourced and checks written.
Take, for example, members of Global Coin Research (GCR), who have cumulatively invested in more than 30 deals, deploying over $25 million into projects such as blockchain interoperability protocol Aurora and Web 3 management platform Coinvise. (In order to participate in a deal, the individual DAO member must be an accredited investor, typically defined as individuals who are legally authorized to purchase securities that aren’t registered with regulatory authorities.)
As of December, GCR estimates its investments have seen average returns over 40-fold for projects that become liquid or marked to market.
“Crypto has allowed micro VCs to really thrive, because the return on investment on blockchain projects can be in the thousands of percent,” said Michael Steinberg, founder of venture capital firm Reciprocal Ventures. Steinberg dubbed investment DAOs as “fundamental recasts” of angel networks or syndicates – loosely organized networks of investors whom early-stage startups have traditionally turned to for funding.
Perhaps the most well-known syndicate is AngelList, which allows accredited investors to participate in deals alongside top venture capital firms such as Tiger Global or Y Combinator.
“The problem with the syndicates is, as a passive investor, you have no access to the founder” of the startup, Steinberg said. “With DAOs, there’s no gating intermediary to block your access.”
Founders also can benefit from their interaction with the DAO, which includes receiving product feedback and advice from a crypto-native community. For fledgling crypto startups, user adoption and product-market fit are all too familiar challenges they – and their non-crypto counterparts – still face.
Raising funds from investment DAOs “helped us in bootstrapping our own community by on-boarding new members through co-hosting events with GCR,” said Jenil Thakker, founder of Coinvise, who has worked with both GCR and The LAO, another investment DAO. “More broadly, investment DAOs offer access to a much wider network of people that can help projects get early feedback.”
For Coinvise, a DAO infrastructure company, GCR helped the startup with product testing, including using the Coinvise platform to launch its GCR governance token.
“It’s becoming a thing now that founders need a community when they fundraise,” GCR’s Yang told CoinDesk. “A project wants to find a good crypto native team and get their products used. They also want a community to provide feedback.”
According to Thakker, most investment DAOs even offer media, hiring and legal services to support their portfolio companies.
“Offering all these at a traditional venture firm costs money and often is not scalable,” Thakker said.
As cryptocurrencies have grown to nearly $3 trillion in market capitalization, investor capital has rabidly chased the booming industry’s eye-popping returns, leading to the formation of several prominent investment DAOs with varying flavors. These include Komorebi Collective, which invests in female founders, and FlamingoDAO, which focuses on non-fungible tokens.
The trend raises the question of whether DAOs will encroach on, or one day, replace traditional venture capital.
“It’s possible,” says Reciprocal’s Steinberg. However, “crypto venture capital is a full-time job. VC firms are generally very active, highly engaged, and have lots of time and resources to devote to portfolio companies. We’re all for partnering with DAOs, but some founders need playbooks.”
“I definitely view their power increasing over time,” Third Prime Capital’s Christian Kaczmarczyk told CoinDesk. “The venture firms who work with DAOs will be successful in the long term.”
Other venture capitalists say the DAO venture model is still lagging traditional VCs in terms of operational capabilities and efficiency.
“As far as I’ve seen, projects value DAOs for the strength of their individual members and capacity for useful partnerships, but still overwhelmingly prefer traditional funds to lead rounds,” said Kyle Wang of Valhalla Capital, who says he is also active in some investment DAOs.
But as DAOs gain increasing market share on startup cap tables, a hybrid model appears to be taking shape, combining the community-driven ethos of DAOs with the deep pockets and operational expertise of venture capitalists.
“There’s room for more centralized investors alongside the extremely democratized investment syndicates, similar to how FTX and Coinbase are viewed alongside Uniswap as liquidity venues,” said Evan Feng, head of research at crypto venture firm CoinFund. “There’s room for hybrid approaches as the boundaries between the two camps blur further.”
Investment DAOs also carry with them risks associated with cryptocurrencies, such as regulatory scrutiny, mismanaged DAO treasuries or flaws in little-tested technologies. An individual DAO’s investment track record is also important, helping more established DAOs stand out from the pack.
But in a crypto bull market, it’s the startup founders who ultimately have the power when it comes to the types of investors they work with.
“Entrepreneurs should choose investors which most align with their vision and give them the greatest chance for success,” says Third Prime’s Kaczmarczyk. “If that is a DAO, then so be it.”"
4,752,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/01/07/solana-defi-major-serums-incentive-ecosystem-foundation-is-raising-100m/,Solana DeFi Major Serum’s ‘Incentive Ecosystem Foundation’ Is Raising $100M,"The protocol that undergirds much of DeFi on Solana is raising funds to expand operations, and about $70 million has been committed so far.",2022-01-07,"Having emerged from the shadow of former parent company FTX, Serum is now looking to soar.
The team behind one of Solana’s largest projects is midway through a $100 million fundraising to expand operations. According to a press release provided to CoinDesk, the Incentive Ecosystem Foundation, the legal entity staffing the team behind the orderbook-based decentralized exchange, is raising the funds to hire and move into new product verticals, including “NFTs, gaming, metaverse and DAO tooling.”
So far the round includes participation from Commonwealth Asset Management LP, Tagus, Tiger Global and executives at Golden Tree Asset Management.
According to pseudonymous Serum core contributor JHL, the Incentive Ecosystem Foundation is an entity used to give contributors salaries and benefits. It will also manage the Serum Ecosystem Fund, which holds tokens in the Serum and Solana ecosystem, including projects like Raydium and Bonfida.
Buyers in the round received both Serum’s SRM tokens as well as a portion of the ecosystem fund, with 85% going into the fund.
Ecosystem funds are a growing trend among major projects. The funds source deals within their particular ecosystem, fostering early-stage companies and sending tokens from those projects to fund liquidity providers. One recent example is Avalanche’s $100 million “Blizzard Fund.”
Read more: Avalanche Developers and Investors Form $200M ‘Blizzard’ Investment Fund
JHL told CoinDesk that the fundraising is still ongoing.
“In committed capital, we’re right around $70 million,” he said, adding that the investments are locked for one year with a linear vesting schedule over an additional five years.
The raise comes at a time when Serum is attempting to “further decentralize from the Alameda and FTX family,” JHL said. It also comes as the crypto markets are tanking, with Solana’s SOL among the top losers in recent days.
Read more: Polkadot, Solana Biggest Losers Among Top Cryptos
“Serum was originally founded by [FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried], and at the time most of the contributors to Serum were employees of Alameda and FTX. Over time, both due to the evolving regulatory landscape as well as the desire to include the community further in Serum’s future, we’ve now decentralized Serum – it has its own employees, it’s completely separate in a legal sense and in every way possible,” he said.
The Incentive Ecosystem Foundation will use the funds to help Serum become a self-sufficient entity and expand operations. Per JHL, the team is currently “five-to-10 people, really,” and a major use of the funding will be to expand the marketing and technical teams.
Amid a broader crypto selloff, SRM is down 2.3% on the day to $3.15."
5,1218,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/01/11/kevin-olearys-crypto-investing-playbook/,Kevin O'Leary's Crypto Investing Playbook,"Mr. Wonderful, who holds 32 cryptocurrencies, advocates for portfolio diversification.",2022-01-11,"Kevin O’Leary is a centimillionaire, a businessperson on reality TV and a crypto bag holder. He’s one of many, many traditional investors with public profiles to make big moves into the crypto market last year during the biggest run-up to date. He’s invested in startups, draws yields by staking his stablecoins and has allocations across 32 different cryptocurrencies, he said on CoinDesk TV Tuesday morning.
“Multiple equities, multiple tokens, multiple coins, multiple blockchains,” O’Leary told the “First Mover” hosts. “I own so many of them.”
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
O’Leary, 67 and born in Canada, has made a career out of investing. But it’s not just his job, it’s his persona. He’s “Mr. Wonderful”. He’s a shark who invests in cupcake companies. He’s the guy who calls it as he sees it: Investments either win or lose. It’s that “binary.”
Yet, when it comes to crypto, O’Leary is an advocate for diversification. He says his largest holding today is ETH, the native currency of the Ethereum network, and he has also bought BTC, SOL, MATIC and 28 other coins. Likewise, seeing crypto exchanges as potentially lucrative, he sees a world where both decentralized and centralized exchanges can win.
Last week, his decentralized finance play, WonderFi, bought a regulated Canadian exchange in a cash and stock deal.
“In my world, I can go all the way to 20% in crypto, and within that subset no position will be larger than 5%,” he said. “That is a very sound mandate of diversification. You will get the rise of crypto. Not all will be equal. … I'm not going to get wrecked if one 5% position goes to zero.”
Although spread wide, O’Leary says these investments are not random. Drawing a comparison to Microsoft and Google, he views cryptocurrencies as “productivity software.” Bitcoin is not a coin, there’s no physical counterpart, it’s code, he said. Likewise for tools like Polygon, which is trying to bolster Ethereum’s lackluster throughput. He doesn’t “play” with meme coins, favoring “real productivity.”
“I don't know which of these platforms is going to win. That's why I own them all,” he said. “I'm investing in the long-term future of a global enterprise.”
That’s a fine statement for a millionaire to make, but probably unrealistic for the many everyday people looking to bet on crypto. But it’s consistent with Mr. Wonderful’s view of the industry. Among crypto fanatics there’s a large emphasis on bitcoin being a tool of personal responsibility. Bitcoiners advocate self-reliance, self-custody and the self-management of time horizons.
But for O’Leary, crypto is better seen as a sub-sector of the largest economy. He proffered a phrase, “the 12th sector of the S&P,” referring to the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index, for his vision of mass adoption. “The real potential of crypto is not just an individual's, it’s institutional capital,” he said. “You need to attract it.”
Indeed, as O’Leary notes, “the smartest hands over the keyboard now are in crypto.” Venture and regular old capitalists have plowed “billions of dollars” into crypto the past two years.
Recently, there has been something of a populist revolt against this trend. Block CEO Jack Dorsey, Signal founder Moxie Marlinspike and countless others have spoken out against the presence of large crypto bagholders in the market who tilt the scale and potentially reintroduce centralization into supposedly decentralized tech. Although rich themselves, they represent a real view.
Read more: What Jack Dorsey’s Beef With ‘Web 3′ Is Really About | Opinion
Millennial market commentator Kyla Scanlon wrote just yesterday about this “narrative” war. Web 3 is also likely to be interpreted as “a promenade of wealth” as “an equitable, cooperative, and accessible” version of the web that the tech presents.
O’Leary, again, straddles the binary. Decentralized finance can make markets more transparent, resilient and less expensive, he said, but the benefits will probably accrue to the top. “You're going to see massive amounts of institutional capital come into this because of the economic value,” he said.
That is, if we can just get a little regulatory clarity, O’Leary said. He shared the story of what happened to his capital gains from investing in real estate after he exited the market. Instead of parking his cash at a bank where he’d lose buying power due to inflation, he wanted a stake in the dollar-pegged stablecoin USDC on FTX (a crypto exchange he’s invested in and is a paid spokesperson for).
It took six months to set the arrangement up, and it’s still less than ideal. “Within my own compliance department, they do not consider stablecoins cash, they consider it equity” so he can’t hold more than 5% due to compliance concerns.
“Right now I need, I really need, the regulator to make policy on stablecoin,” he said, referring to the asset class in the singular.
This isn’t the first time O’Leary has called for regulations. Last year, he played a major role in drumming up environmental concerns against bitcoin, saying that for institutions to get involved they need an ESG-friendly option. Regulation is needed, as are eco-friendly miners to create distinct versions of clean and dirty bitcoin.
O’Leary is a skilled investor and spokesperson. But does the industry need more investors like Mr. Wonderful?"
6,1219,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/12/first-mover-asia-crypto-prices-rise-on-better-than-expected-us-inflation-news/,First Mover Asia: Crypto Prices Rise on Better-Than-Expected US Inflation News,"The consumer price index rose 7%, but many investors anticipated a steeper increase; bitcoin and ether prices notched solid gains during the U.S. trading day.",2022-01-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Market moves: Bitcoin rose to its highest point in a week; most of the leading altcoins also saw increases.
Technician’s take: BTC's sell-off appears exhausted as buyers attempt to reverse a short-term downtrend.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Bitcoin (BTC): $43,907 +2.5%
Ether (ETH): $3,369 +3.7%
S&P 500: $4,726 +0.2%
DJIA: $36,290 +0.1%
Nasdaq: $15,188 +0.2%
Gold: $1,826 0.2%
Bitcoin (BTC) rose to its highest price in a week, recovering somewhat after last week's abysmal start to the year.
At the time of publication, the largest cryptocurrency was changing hands around $43,900, after dipping a few days ago below $40,000 for the first time since September. The bitcoin price is still down 5.2% so far in 2022.
The bitcoin market may have gotten a boost from a U.S. Labor Department report Wednesday showing that the Consumer Price Index, a key inflation gauge, rose to an annual clip of 7% in December, the highest since the early 1980s.
But there had been fears in the market that prices might have climbed even faster, which would have put additional pressure on the Federal Reserve to move more aggressively to tighten monetary conditions and cool down the economy.
Bitcoin is viewed by a growing number of investors as a hedge against fast inflation, and the price has climbed since the Fed started printing money – more than $4 trillion so far – and pursuing ultra-loose monetary policies since the coronavirus hit in March 2020, roiling markets and the economy.
""The market reaction to this new data might be a bit confusing as we see the crypto markets taking a victory lap,"" Mati Greenspan, founder of the cryptocurrency and foreign-exchange analysis firm Quantum Economics, wrote Wednesday in his newsletter. ""This time however investors seem a lot more relaxed about the Fed.""
U.S. stocks closed higher, also due to cooling concerns that the Fed might get more aggressive in tackling inflation, according to Reuters.
In cryptocurrencies beyond bitcoin, the Near Protocol's NEAR token rose Wednesday to an all-time high, on signs the up-and-coming blockchain might be undervalued as it attracts more activity.
Some analysts warned that NEAR might be looking frothy on some metrics, and that bullish bets on another popular blockchain token, Fantom's FTM, have become a ""crowded"" trade.
Ether (ETH), the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain and the second-largest overall, rose 4.2% over the past 24 hours to about $3,370, based on CoinDesk pricing.
Bitcoin Rises Above $43K; Resistance at $45K-$48K
Bitcoin (BTC) buyers held support around $40,000 as oversold signals appeared on the charts.
The recent bounce suggests the cryptocurrency is starting to recover after a near-30% decline from its all-time high around $69,000 in November.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart is approaching overbought levels, similar to what occurred in late December, which preceded a brief pullback. The RSI on the daily chart, however, continues to rise from oversold levels, which means buyers could remain active on price dips.
Still, given the short-term downtrend, upside appears limited toward the $45,000-$48,000 resistance zone. And on weekly and monthly charts, momentum signals remain negative, which means price rises could be limited for now.
2 p.m. HKT/SGT (6 a.m. UTC) Japan machine tool orders (Dec. YoY)
5 p.m. HKT/SGT (9 a.m. UTC) European Central Bank Economic Bulletin
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT (1:30 p.m. UTC) U.S. producer price index (Dec. MoM/YoY)
11 p.m. HKT/SGT (3 p.m. UTC) Speech by Federal Reserve Board member Lael Brainard
In case you missed it, here are the most recent episodes of “First Mover” on CoinDesk TV:
US Economy Sees Highest Inflation in 4 Decades, Is Bitcoin Still an Inflation Hedge?
""First Mover"" hosts spoke with PwC Global Crypto Leader Henri Arslanian for his analysis on the crypto markets as the U.S. December consumer price indexes increased 7% from a year ago, the highest level in four decades, and he shares his top crypto prediction for 2022. Plus, former SEC Branch Chief Lisa Bragança shared insights into the current state and outlook for SEC crypto regulation.
NBA Top Shot Bans User ‘FreeHongKong’ The user was banned with little explanation from the site’s support team after attempting to cash out their earnings.
Solana Could Become the Visa of Digital-Asset World: Bank of America: Solana and other blockchains may snag market share from Ethereum over time, the bank said in a research note.
Checkout.com Raises $1B, Eyes Web 3 Push: The payments processor counts FTX, Coinbase and Crypto.com among its customers.
Wikipedia Faces Pressure to Stop Accepting Crypto Donations on Environmental Grounds: A proposal by a contributor has sparked discussions on crypto’s environmental footprint, but the foundation hasn't made a decision on the issue yet.
Blockchain Indicator Suggests Bitcoin Could be Close to Bottoming Out: Bitcoin looks undervalued relative to the annualized dollar value of coin dormancy.
Kevin O'Leary's Crypto Investing Playbook: Mr. Wonderful, who holds 32 cryptocurrencies, advocates for portfolio diversification.
Today's crypto explainer: What Are Privacy Coins and Are They Legal?
Other voices: CBDC and stablecoins: Early coexistence on an uncertain road
""If you bet heavily on a slight inflation beat by buying bitcoin at 8:29 a.m. this morning, you made money by 9 a.m. That’s a risky trade analogous to what stock traders do frequently."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""The Travel Rule means that providers of virtual assets need to collect and share customer data for transactions over a certain threshold. This is not a radical idea. It simply means crypto providers must stick to international rules that ensure the protection of legitimate finance and prevent illicit finance."" (Marcus Pleyer, deputy director general in Germany’s Federal Ministry of Finance and president of the Financial Action Task Force for CoinDesk) ... ""When Elon Musk moves entire markets with single tweets, it becomes clear that the cryptocurrency market in its current form is a dangerous beast that Western governments have no idea how to contain."" (James Caan, the founder of the Hamilton Bradshaw private equity firm for CoinDesk) ... “Obviously 7[%] is a pretty big sticker shock."" (Omair Sharif, founder of the research firm Inflation Insights, to The New York Times) ... “My gut feeling is that the pace of appreciation is going to be slower in 2022 than it was in 2021. But I don’t see rents actually dropping or getting more affordable.” (Zillow Senior Economist Jeff Tucker)"
7,1221,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/18/first-mover-asia-fed-tightening-economic-woes-continue-to-spook-crypto-investors/,"First Mover Asia: Fed Tightening, Economic Woes Continue to Spook Crypto Investors",Bitcoin and ether rose and fell; altcoins have a mixed day.,2022-01-18,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Market moves: Bitcoin and ether go down and then up; altcoin prices are mixed.
Technician's take: BTC appears oversold into the Asia trading day, but upside remains limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Bitcoin (BTC): $42,463 +0.8%
Ether (ETH): $3,166 -1.3%
Top gainers
Top losers
S&P 500: $4,577 -1.8%
DJIA: $35,368 -1.5%
Nasdaq: $14,506 -2.6%
Gold: $1,813 0.3%
Bitcoin couldn't make up its mind in Tuesday trading. It started the day with a short downward spiral that had its price headed for $41,000. But then it changed course. By the end of trading in U.S. equities markets, it was on its way to where it began the day, above $42,000. At the time of publication, the largest cryptocurrency in market capitalization was trading above $42,500, up slightly for the day.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, followed a similar pattern, sinking and then rising. At the time of publication, it was trading about $3,150, approximately flat over the past 24 hours. The other leading alternative coins (altcoins) varied with a few gaining a tick and others off slightly.
The mixed performance reflected ongoing nervousness about the U.S. and global economies. Major stock indicators fell with the S&P 500 off 1.8% and the Nasdaq down 2.6% as investors looked to exit companies that are losing money. Bond yields rose amid widespread fears that the U.S. central bank will raise interest rates faster and more steeply than expected.
""Bitcoin seems poised to continue to trade as a risky asset and remains vulnerable to growing fears over aggressive Fed tightening,"" OANDA Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya told CoinDesk by email. ""The surge in Treasury [bond] yields may continue this week, and that could test some bitcoin hodlers and altcoins.""
But Moya is optimistic about a bitcoin price rebound. ""The breakout in Treasury yields was not expected to happen this quickly, but when it ends that could be the all-clear signal for many traders to scale back into cryptocurrencies,"" he said.
Bitcoin Drifts Lower; Stuck Between $40K Support and $45K Resistance
Bitcoin (BTC) has traded in a sideways range over the past week, although buyers continued to hold support around $40,000. The next level of resistance is between $43,000-$45,000, which could limit short-term price gains.
BTC is roughly flat over the past 24 hours as most technical indicators remain neutral into the Asia trading day.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart is the most oversold since Jan. 7, which preceded a 10% price bounce. In a downtrend, however, price reaction to oversold readings could be delayed by a few days.
For now, sellers remain in control as long-term momentum signals weaken.
10 a.m. HKT/SGT (2 a.m. UTC): Eurostat construction output (Nov. MoM/YoY)
1:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (5:30 a.m. UTC): U.S. building permits (Dec. MoM/Change)
2:15 p.m. HKT/SGT (6:15 a.m. UTC): Speech by Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey
23:50 p.m. HKT/SGT (3:15 p.m. UTC): Japan imports/exports (Dec. YoY)
In case you missed it, here are the most recent episodes of “First Mover” on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Down as Stock Futures Tumble, Former Acting Comptroller of the Currency Brian Brooks Shares View on US Stablecoin Regulation, FTX Sets Up $2B to Invest in Crypto Startups
Former Acting Comptroller of the Currency and current Bitfury CEO Brian Brooks joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the U.S. stablecoin regulations. Meanwhile, FTX announced a $2 billion venture fund to invest in crypto industry startups. FTX Ventures lead Amy Wu shared details from behind the scene. Bitcoin is down along with stock futures. OANDA Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya provided his market analysis. Plus, a regulatory update from CoinDesk Managing Editor for Global Policy & Regulation Nikhilesh De.
Animoca Brands Valuation More Than Doubles to $5.5B in Three Months: The investor in non-fungible token (NFT) and metaverse projects raised almost $360 million in its latest funding round.
BSN’s Red Date Behind Shenzhen-Singapore Trade Blockchain Project: The network could help companies and governments implement data security laws.
Paradigm Leads $110M Investment in Bahrain's First Licensed Crypto Brokerage: Kleiner Perkins co-led the funding round, which will go toward geographic expansion.
Intel to Unveil 'Ultra Low-Voltage Bitcoin Mining ASIC' in February: The move would bring the chip maker into the same market with such companies at Bitmain and MicroBT.
Crypto.Com’s Stolen Ether Being Laundered Via Tornado Cash: Ethereum mixer being used to obscure destinations of ether stolen from Crypto.com
In the Metaverse, Gameplay Is What Matters: Second Life compares to some of the blockbuster experiences that exist today, writes EY's Paul Brody.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is a 51% Attack?
Other voices: Signal's Cryptocurrency Feature Has Gone Worldwide
“China is on a very different path than the rest of the world, it is a striking difference,” Ielpo said. “We are nervous about what’s happening in China right now.” (Florian Ielpo, head of macro at Lombard Odier Investment Managers/The Wall Street Journal) ... “I would hope that that’s the case, but that would only be the case if we don’t get another variant that eludes the immune response.” (Anthony Fauci speaking at The World Economic Forum on the Omicron variant of the coronavirus)...""There should absolutely be more of an effort to draw a distinction between actual scams and legitimate efforts, but the term is what it is and, again, there shouldn’t be language policing of free markets. I advocate the use of softer words: “Ponzi-like” or “Ponzi-esque"" because we're rarely ever discussing the real deal."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn)"
8,123,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/19/market-wrap-bitcoin-stabilizes-analysts-see-relative-value-in-altcoins/,Market Wrap: Bitcoin Stabilizes; Analysts See Relative Value in Altcoins,Bitcoin was roughly flat over the past 24 hours while trading activity in alternative coins increased.,2022-01-19,"Bitcoin traded around the $41,000 on Wednesday as some traders appeared to be in no rush to pick a price bottom. Analysts see the potential for a short-term price bounce, especially as technical indicators have remained in oversold territory for about a month.
""Investors and traders appear to be digesting the macro possibilities within this new inflationary regime markets have entered, alongside an increasingly hawkish Federal Reserve,"" Will Hamilton, head of trading and research at Trovio Capital Management, wrote in an email to CoinDesk.
On Tuesday, Morgan Stanley stated that the imminent start of central bank tightening is putting pressure on the crypto market. Bitcoin’s market capitalization has tracked the growth of global money supply, which peaked in February 2021 (two months before a 50% drop in BTC's price), according to Morgan Stanley.
For now, some traders are still finding relative value in some alternative cryptocurrencies. Relative value is a method of determining an asset's worth that takes into account the value of similar assets.
""Lower demand for bitcoin has been driven by market participants shifting focus towards outperforming mid-cap assets, including Fantom and FTT, which have returned ~31% and ~15% respectively during the past week,"" Hamilton stated, referring to the Fantom smart contract platform and the FTT token associated with crypto exchange FTX.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $41703, −0.19%
●Ether (ETH): $3120, −0.15%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4533, −0.97%
●Gold: $1844 per troy ounce, +1.72%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 1.83%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC) shares have widened their discount relative to the underlying cryptocurrency held in the fund, reaching a record of 26.5% on Wednesday.
GBTC has been the preferred venue for institutional investors to gain exposure to crypto without having to purchase bitcoin directly, but the shares have traded at a steep discount over the past year as demand for the product shrank. (Grayscale Investments, which manages the trust, is a unit of Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.)
""There's still no way for bitcoin to ever leave GBTC, which means it should continue to trade with a substantial discount to reflect that illiquidity,"" David Nadig, director of research and chief investment officer at ETFTrends.com, wrote in an email to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin's market capitalization relative to the total crypto market capitalization, or the BTC dominance ratio, is starting to stabilize around 40%. That's the lowest level since 2018, which was when alternative cryptocurrencies (altcoins) experienced greater price declines than BTC. Crypto investors tend to seek relative safety in bitcoin during times of market stress.
For now, it appears that bitcoin's dominance ratio could have further room to drop toward the 2018 low of around 36%. Some analysts expect a continued rotation to alternative cryptocurrencies such as ether and decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens due to their many use-cases compared to bitcoin's appeal as a store of value.
""FTM, LUNA, ATOM and MATIC have exhibited relative strength among the larger market-cap altcoins, with upcoming product updates prevalent in these pairs,"" FundStrat, a global advisory firm, wrote in a Wednesday newsletter.
Also, a number of Ethereum competitors are starting to gain market share.
""Despite major developments in the bitcoin market, the current market narratives continue to lean towards emerging developments outside Ethereum and Bitcoin, namely Ethereum competitors, scaling solutions and OpenSea alternatives,"" 21Shares, a crypto investment firm, wrote in a report.
Cardano's ADA token leads crypto majors lower: Earlier on Wednesday, ADA dropped about 10% along with smaller declines in other altcoins such as MATIC and SOL. ADA's decline appears typical of a correction often seen after a notable price rally. The token jumped nearly 60% to $1.64 earlier this month, outperforming bitcoin as the impending launch of SundaeSwap, the first decentralized finance (DeFi) exchange on the Cardano blockchain, revved up investor interest in the cryptocurrency.
Active blockchain games on the rise: The prices of tokens for gaming projects like Axie Infinity have fallen recently, but user metrics in this subsector of cryptocurrencies are soaring. There are now 398 active blockchain games, defined as having at least one active wallet in the past 24 hours within the game, according to the data tracker DappRadar. That's a 92% increase from a year ago. Read more here.
Ethereum vs. Solana: Ethereum’s dominance in non-fungible tokens (NFTs) is shrinking because of congestion and high gas fees, JPMorgan said in an analyst report. The network’s market share of NFTs has dropped to around 80% from about 95% at the start of 2021. JPMorgan cautions that if Ethereum’s loss of NFT market share continues in 2022, it could be a bigger problem for its valuation.
Crypto Miner Mawson Sees Hashrate Topping 1 EH/s by Month's End
EU Markets Regulator Calls for Ban on Proof-of-Work Crypto Mining: Report
UK Financial Regulator to Limit Crypto Ads to Sophisticated, Wealthy Investors
FTX US Derivatives Names Former LedgerX Chairman Larry Thompson as Board Chair
Gemini Introduces Prime Brokerage Following Second Acquisition in a Week
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
No assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive, and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
9,1171,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/31/first-mover-asia-crypto-finishes-bad-month-on-high-note/,First Mover Asia: Crypto Finishes Bad Month on High Note,"Prices for bitcoin, ether and most major altcoins rise after a month of steep price declines.",2022-01-31,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Market moves: Bitcoin ended a bad January on a positive note; DeFi trading volume grew steadily.
Technician's take: BTC's January sell-off could attract short-term buyers.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Bitcoin (BTC): $38.446 +1%
Ether (ETH): $2,682 +2.6%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,515 +1.8%
DJIA: 35,131 +1.1%
Nasdaq: 14,239 +3.4%
Gold: $1,797 +0.4%
Bitcoin ended the last day of a bearish January in the green, while overall trading on decentralized exchanges (DEXs) closed at nearly $100 billion in volume for the month.
At the time of publication, the oldest cryptocurrency was changing hands at about $38,500, up slightly over the past 24 hours, according to CoinDesk data. Ether, the second biggest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was up 2.7% to over $2,600 in the same time period.
“Bitcoin is rallying as risky assets finish a very bad January on a positive note,” Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda, the Americas, wrote in his daily market update. “Bitcoin bullish momentum is slowly building up and it could surprise to the upside if the dollar continues to weaken as much of the Fed tightening for the year begins to get priced in.”
Data compiled by CoinDesk shows that bitcoin’s trading volume across major crypto exchanges was significantly lower than a week ago. Many stock indexes in Asia were closed amid the weeklong lunar New Year (also known as Chinese New Year) holidays. Many crypto traders in the region may also have taken time off.
Meanwhile, decentralized exchanges reported nearly $100 billion in trading volume in January, according to Dune Analytics. The total trading volume in DEXs previously dropped significantly following its peak last May. But the high volume has returned in recent months.
Some of January’s volume may be associated with the volatility of the markets and the drama in decentralized finance protocol Wonderland, and yet one analyst said the steadily growing volume shows a “renewed growth” in the DeFi sector.
“The flawless execution without downtime, or the amazing ability for these protocols to run uninterrupted even amidst drama from founders/developers and declining asset prices…should be the focus,” Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at crypto investment managing firm Arca, wrote in his blog dated Monday. “There is a thriving underlying ecosystem despite one-off scams, hacks, and ousted bad actors.”
Bitcoin Holding Support Above $37K; Resistance at $40K-$45K
Bitcoin was rising toward the top of a weeklong trading range as oversold signals remain intact. Oversold refers to investors believing the asset is trading below its true value. BTC was trading at about $38,500 at press time and is up 4% over the past week.
Initial resistance is seen at $40,000, which is an old support level that was rejected on Jan. 20. Buyers will need to make a decisive move above $40,000-$45,000 in order to reverse the downtrend that has been in place since November.
For now, BTC’s 20% price decline in January could attract short-term buyers. Traders could place additional bids heading into the Asia trading day if support at $37,000 holds.
Over the long term, upside appears limited given negative momentum signals.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun Bank (Japan) manufacturing PMI (Jan.)
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia home loans (Dec.)
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia investment lending for homes (Dec.)
3 p.m. HKT/SGT (7 a.m. UTC): Germany retail sales (Dec. MoM/YoY)
5:30 p.m. HKT/SGT (9:30 a.m. UTC): U.K. consumer credit
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin’s 15th Bear Market Since Its Creation in 2009, Arca Study Finds Most Investors Believe Traditional Securities Will Be Digitized in 5-10 Years
“First Mover"" hosts speak to Arca co-founder and CEO Rayne Steinberg as the firm releases a study revealing the top trends in digital assets. Taiwan-based XREX wants to bridge the world using stablecoins. Co-founder Wayne Huang shares the state of crypto in Taiwan. TR Lab co-founder Xin Li-Cohen shares details for the $4.2 million fundraising round from leading art and tech investors and his views on the NFT (non-fungible token) market.
FTX Reaches $32B Valuation With $400M Fundraise: The investment values the crypto exchange at the same level as Deutsche Boerse and more than Nasdaq or Twitter.
This Marathon Is Among the First IRL-Metaverse Mashups: Raramuri’s June 2 event gives you plenty of time to train for the metaverse’s first marathon.
Turkish Crypto Firm Bitci Eyes Expansion Into Brazil, Spain: Report: The company aims to open a trading platform in Brazil next month with a Spanish one planned in March.
Bitcoin's Put-Call Ratio Hits 6-Month High as Negativity Rules: The ratio suggests demand for puts is high, one observer said.
Mastercard’s CipherTrace Used ‘Honeypots’ to Gather Crypto Wallet Intel: In cybersecurity, the term “honeypot” refers to a trap for hackers. But what does it mean in the context of on-chain analytics? (CoinDesk Privacy Week series)
Solana Could Become the Visa of Digital-Asset World: Bank of America: Solana and other blockchains may snag market share from Ethereum over time, the bank said in a research note.
Bitcoin Protects Privacy and Fights Oppression: Central bank digital currencies, on the other hand, are financial surveillance on steroids. (CoinDesk's Privacy Week)
Today's crypto explainer: Investing in Meme Coins? 3 Things Every Crypto Trader Should Know: Before you go “aping” into the latest “inu” coin, here are a few tips on how to invest in meme coins safely.
Other voices: Is cryptocurrency the future of money? (CBS News)
""As someone who was there for Canadian crypto’s early days, I can tell you that we were operating truly in the unknown in those first years. In that environment, actors emerged that today our space wouldn’t tolerate. I won’t speak or reveal more on Michael/Omar for personal security reasons, but the point isn’t about him; it's about the moral compass we must demand and a requirement to fight for the betterment of our ecosystem – and humanity."" (Joseph Weinberg for CoinDesk."" (Bitcoin investor and Shyft Network co-founder Joseph Weinberg) ... ""Crypto's primary benefits stem from being open, transparent and immutable. Blockchain-based web apps are necessarily different than the multibillion-dollar ""walled gardens"" that dominant the internet today. Privacy laws were written with the old web in mind, the web of Facebook and Google."" (Antoni Zolciak, co-founder of Aleph Zero, a privacy-enhancing layer 1, for CoinDesk's Privacy Week series) ... ""Retail investors’ top picks now look more like they did in early 2020, when the roster of the most-popular U.S.-listed stocks and exchange-traded funds was made up almost entirely of shares of well-established companies in the benchmark S&P 500 and ETFs representing broad bets on U.S. stocks or bonds, according to data from VandaTrack."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
10,1173,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/01/pay-product-looks-to-boost-stablecoin-payments-on-solana/,‘Pay’ Product Looks to Boost Stablecoin Payments on Solana,Can Solana Labs’ open-source payment plug-in pick up where the Bitcoin white paper left off?,2022-02-01,"Cryptocurrency’s original use case – payments – is getting a boost on the Solana blockchain.
New software co-developed by Solana Labs intends to help merchants accept crypto payments over the Solana network. Checkout.com, Circle and Citcon are supporting “Solana Pay,” which debuted Tuesday with integrations with crypto exchange FTX and ecosystem wallets Phantom and Slope.
The software development kit (SDK) takes crypto in and spits crypto out. Obvious, maybe – but a notable difference from some of the market’s better-known crypto-to-fiat rails. Virtually every merchant paid with a “crypto credit card” sees their payments settled in cash.
Crypto payments have been central to the industry since the Bitcoin white paper touted “peer-to-peer electronic cash” over a decade ago. But a mix of price volatility, slow on-chain settlement and tax headaches hampered growth, said Sheraz Shere, head of payments for Solana Labs.
“Now that we have a blockchain that has the throughput, speed and scalability and low fees of traditional payment networks – 50,000 transactions per second and sub-second transfer times, we can potentially build a merchant payment system that's truly on the blockchain, and most importantly, that's peer-to-peer and decentralized and permissionless,” Shere said.
Technically any SPL token can flow through Solana Pay. But the protocol’s backers are particularly keen on payments in Solana-native USDC.
The ecosystem already has $4 billion of Circle’s dollar-pegged stablecoin sloshing about, a figure second only to Ethereum in size.
Read more: USDC Is Coming to Solana Blockchain in Potential Boost for Non-Ethereum DeFi
A non-custodial service, the open-source package, which Shere said anyone could implement, does not take a slice of payments. Customers will still have to pay network fees; on Solana, that’s well below 1/100th of a penny.
The state of play for merchants is only a tad more complicated. Plugging into Solana Pay through a third-party like Checkout.com, they might pay a minimal service charge. They could set it up themselves for zero fees, he said.
Customer payments are only the start, Shere said. He’s “thinking about a future where stablecoins like USDC are the transactional currency,” underpinning everything from payroll to invoices.
That said, Solana has seen its fair share of hiccups lately. Continued network slowdowns could set back the stated vision, though a spokesperson for Solana Labs said that USDC transfers are simple to execute and unlikely to add stress."
11,828,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/02/01/gamefi-faces-regulatory-headwinds-in-major-asian-markets/,GameFi Faces Regulatory Headwinds in Major Asian Markets,"As cryptocurrency investors look to GameFi as the industry’s latest vertical, experts warn gaming and crypto’s most important markets will provide regulatory challenges for the industry.",2022-02-01,"In the first few weeks of the year, a considerable amount of capital was allocated to investment pools looking for the next big thing in GameFi – the collision of crypto and gaming. In January, FTX established a $2 billion fund to target gaming; shortly after, Singapore’s Crypto.com Ventures upped its $200 million fund to $500 million saying that gaming was one of the investment themes on which it planned to double down.
This enthusiasm crypto investors have for gaming is matched by executives at some of the gaming industry’s largest incumbents. Leadership at EA and Ubisoft have both said that blockchain technology, as well as non-fungible tokens (NFT), represent the future of gaming.
While mainstream crypto gaming has already had the challenge of lukewarm consumer interest, the industry faces an even greater challenge in some of the most important markets in Asia: a strict regulatory framework.
Usually, with crypto there’s an element of regulatory fog. However, with crypto gaming specifically, there are laws about monetizing game tokens already on the books in South Korea, Japan and China – and in some cases, they are nearly 20 years old.
Oleg Smagin, a senior crypto finance manager at Seoul-based Post Voyager, a GameFi service developer, points to Article 32 of Korea’s Gaming Industry Promotion Act as a potential problem. It specifically bans game currency from being converted into cash.
“The interesting part is that this article had been there long before the P2E [play-to-earn] and blockchain were born. It was added in 2004 when hundreds of thousands of Koreans were fanatically playing a notorious arcade game called ‘Seatalk’ (바다이야기),” Smagin told CoinDesk. “You could earn coupons in the game that could be turned into cash at almost every corner. The game became so popular that the government considered it a dangerous form of gambling.”
Smagin said the law has stayed on the books for nearly two years, and is being used to block the distribution of play-to-earn games like Axie Infinity. “For the regulator, Axie is no different from Seatalk as you can go to an exchange and easily exchange your tokens earned in the game into cash,” he said.
Korea has a form of soft web censoring, mostly blocking pornography and what the state deems illegal or subversive materials, but Axie Infinity is still accessible online.
However, play-to-earn games cannot be distributed through existing digital or retail channels in the country such as mobile app stores, which is sure to be a non-starter for larger game developers.
Megan Huang, a research fellow at International Cyber Law at Korea University and a director at Delio, said the Korean Game Rating and Administration Committee has already blocked the distribution of play-to-earn games Infinite Breakthrough and Three Kingdoms Reverse from mobile app stores by withholding their rating classification.
“[The regulator] has sent an official request to Apple and Google asking them to block further registration of play-to-earn games from their app stores,” she said.
Huang also points to Article 28 of the Gaming Industry Promotion Act as being problematic for the emergent industry as it prohibits speculative acts, gambling and free gifts.
But for web-based games, there’s always a question as to how effective any sort of ban can be. Huang said many Korean gamers are already using virtual private networks (VPN) to access play-to-earn games, which would bypass any sort of country-wide block entirely.
Over in Japan, play-to-earn is on rocky grounds, not because of specific laws about gaming but because most of the in-game actions would likely be considered gambling.
In a September post, Tokyo-based law firm So & Sato said that based on its analysis, the core functions of Axie Infinity’s gameplay would be considered either illegal gambling, or regulated under the Japanese Fair Trade Commission's Improper Premiums and Misleading Representations Act.
“Since a user must pay a certain amount of smooth love potion [or SLP, an in-game token] to breed new randomly generated Axies, there is a possibility that the breeding of new Axies is considered illegal gambling,” the firm wrote. The game’s tournaments, which require an entry fee, would also fall under this category.
So & Sato also point to the game’s farming mechanism as something that would be regulated by Japan’s Consumer Affairs Agency’s Improper Premiums and Misleading Representations Act (IPMR).
“The IPMR provides limits for items and other assets that can be given away for ‘free.’ In the case of play-to-earn models where players must make an initial investment to play the game,” the firm writes.
China, one of the biggest markets for gaming, definitely has the steepest prohibition on GameFi. And like Korea, part of the framework has already been on the books for some time.
In the mid-2000s, Tencent developed a virtual currency called QQ Coins, Jason Hu, head of market at Shenzhen-based non-fungible token (NFT) project Prota-1, explained to CoinDesk. These coins were pegged to the value of the Chinese yuan and could be exchanged for cash or other physical goods. They lasted for around a decade before the People’s Bank of China (PBoC), the nation’s central bank, banned them in 2007.
“Any gaming element that’s transferable to the CNY [yuan] is strictly forbidden. Even a lot of online poker games have been shut down because the token coins can be exchanged for CNY,” he said.
Later, in 2017, the PBoC put a ban on crypto trading entirely eliminating the possibility of GameFi’s entry into China entirely.
Huang said that within China gaming is a licensed activity and developers that want to publish a game in-country must get an Internet Content Provider (ICP) certificate from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) as well as approval from the National Press and Publications Administration.
“GameFi is not fundamentally allowed by Chinese law because it deals with virtual currency businesses such as crypto wallets, exchange, and trading of tokens,” said Huang.
Foreign developers must partner with a domestic publisher, like Tencent, NetEase or JD to publish a game. All of China’s tech giants have signed a self-regulatory pledge to prohibit speculation around NFTs.
“[NFT buyers] can only collect, appreciate and display purchased NFT digital collections which makes the NFT markets in China is completely different from those in overseas market,” Huang said.
Hu adds Chinese media have been encouraged to use the term “digital collectibles” instead of NFTs and are discouraged from talking about tokens.
Even though China’s strict regulatory framework means GameFi will never take off in the country, Hu isn’t deterred. He sees China as being a “factory” for gaming and the upcoming metaverse.
“There’s strong development talent in China,” he said, pointing to the number of schools and even non-degree coding bootcamps to train people for the industry.
“I imagine the future of gaming startups where the marketing and design teams are in the U.S., but the engineers are in China,” he said."
12,830,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/01/terra-founder-floats-38m-proposal-for-american-sports-league-deal/,Terra Founder Floats $38M Proposal for American Sports League Deal,Terra founder Do Kwon proposed sponsoring an unidentified major American professional sports league franchise to the tune of $38.5 million.,2022-02-01,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon floated a funding proposal for $38.5 million from the Terra community treasury to sponsor a major American sports league team he didn't name. The funding would be in the form of TerraUSD (UST) stablecoins, or tokens pegged on a 1:1 basis with U.S. dollars.
“This proposal involves a legendary sports franchise and a household name in one of the major four American professional sports leagues – the NFL, NBA, NHL and MLB,” Kwon said on Tuesday. “For legal reasons, we cannot reveal the identity of the franchise until after the voting period has concluded and the partnership agreement is settled.”
2 of 3: 🤫 https://t.co/XNuZbvhO33
The National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), National Hockey League (NHL), and Major League Baseball (MLB) are four of the biggest sports leagues in the world. They together attract billions of dollars in advertising revenue each year and offer some of the most-watched sporting events.
The Community Pool of Singapore-based Terra is one of the largest decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) in the crypto industry, with over $2.74 billion in assets.
A DAO is a blockchain-based organization often governed by its native crypto token. Holders collectively vote on decisions to determine the DAO’s future, unlike traditional companies where decisions are taken by an elected board.
According to Kwon’s proposal, the deal would help fund a five-year exclusive partnership to promote the Terra brand across the franchise’s home venue and its television network.
Under the terms of the agreement, the community pool will pay the full amount upon execution of the deal. This represents annual fees of $7.50 million a year for five years and $650,000 to cover construction, renovation and redesign costs.
If the proposal is passed by the Terra community, the funds will be distributed to a multi-signature (multisig) wallet controlled by a newly formed Terra Community Trust (TCT).
The Terra DAO is the direct beneficiary of this wallet and would have three trustees: 1. Delphi Labs General Counsel Gabriel Shapiro, RealVision co-founder Remi Tetot, and Draft Kings board member Ryan Moore.
“The delivery of funds to the TCT and eventually the sports franchise will be executed via a UST to [U.S. dollar over-the-counter] deal with a leading and well-reputed trading firm,” Kwon said in the proposal.
While Terra’s proposal could make it one of the first instances of a DAO funding a sporting partnership, several crypto companies have turned to sports companies as a means of promotion. Such funding has crossed $1 billion in the past year.
Crypto services firm Crypto.com leads the list. In the past year, the firm inked a $700 million agreement to rename the iconic Staples Center in Los Angeles to Crypto.com Arena, struck a $100 million deal with Formula 1, announced a three-year partnership with soccer's Paris Saint-Germain, and became the official jersey patch sponsor of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team.
Crypto exchange FTX also has multiple partnerships. In the past year, the Bahamas-based crypto exchange purchased the naming rights to esports giant TSM in June for $210 million, secured a 19-year deal with Miami Heat, a five-year partnership with MLB, and secured the naming rights to UC Berkeley’s football stadium.
Terra’s LUNA tokens were among the top gainers on Tuesday, rising as much as 22% in 24 hours. Price surged to as much as $53.96 in the Asian morning before tumbling down to $51.80 at the time of writing."
13,306,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/01/coachella-music-festival-to-launch-solana-nfts-in-deal-with-ftx/,Coachella Music Festival to Launch Solana NFTs in Deal With FTX,The storied California music festival is making the jump into NFTs.,2022-02-01,"The Coachella Valley Music & Arts Festival, set to return this April after a two-year hiatus, has announced a series of NFTs (non-fungible tokens) offering on-site perks and VIP access to the event.
It’s part of a “long-term” partnership with FTX, festival officials said in a press release. FTX is the crypto exchange helmed by billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried that recently snagged a $32 billion valuation (and an $8 billion valuation for its U.S. arm).
Coachella is launching three collections at different price points, all of which are built on Solana, a relatively eco-friendly blockchain with lower fees than Ethereum. FTX introduced a Solana-based NFT marketplace last October.
The first set, called the Coachella Keys Collection, consists of just 10 tokens, each offering lifetime festival access and other VIP goodies (among them, a “celebrity chef dinner”). There’s also the Desert Reflections Collection – 1,000 tokens priced at $180 each, which buyers can redeem for a physical copy of a Coachella photo book – and the Sights and Sounds Collection, which mostly just gets you the token and audiovisual accompaniment. The Sights and Sounds NFTs are priced at $60 each, and will launch in an edition of 10,000.
“Only blockchain technology can give us the unique ability to offer tradeable lifetime passes to Coachella for the first time ever,” Coachella Innovation Lead Sam Schoonover said in a statement.
Coachella – headlined this year by Harry Styles, Billie Eilish and Kanye West – isn’t the first music festival to experiment with crypto. This past year, New York’s Governor’s Ball offered NFTs through a partnership with Coinbase.
According to a press release, an undisclosed portion of the proceeds from Coachella’s NFTs will go to three charities: GiveDirectly, Lideres Campesinas and Find Food Bank.
In an attempt to get ahead of anticipated backlash, FTX has also purchased 100,000 tons of carbon offsets."
14,1179,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/02/first-mover-asia-crypto-prices-plunge-late-after-weak-meta-earnings/,First Mover Asia: Crypto Prices Plunge Late After Weak Meta Earnings,Bitcoin and ether fell sharply after the company formerly known as Facebook said its virtual/augmented reality division lost $10 billion in 2021.,2022-02-02,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Market moves: Bitcoin ended its two-day winning streak with heavier selling pressure during late U.S. trading hours.
Technician's take: BTC's pullback could continue into the Asia trading day; initial support at $35K.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Bitcoin (BTC): $37,031 -4.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,690 -3.8%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,589 +0.9%
DJIA: 35,629 +0.6%
Nasdaq: 14,417 +0.5%
Gold: $1,807 +0.3%
Bitcoin (BTC) and the broader crypto market faced heavier selling pressure in late U.S. trading hours on Wednesday, ending the oldest cryptocurrency’s two-day winning streak.
The late afternoon price drop in crypto came after Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook) delivered disappointing Q4 earnings with weak guidance for the current quarter. Meta shares dropped by more than 18% in extended trading on Wednesday.
At the time of publication, the largest cryptocurrency by market value is changing hands at $37,031, down 4.5% in the past 24 hours, according to CoinDesk data. Ether, the second-biggest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was trading at $2,690, off 3.8% for the same period.
According to data compiled by CoinDesk, bitcoin’s trading volume across major centralized exchanges on Wednesday continued to drop.
In broader cryptocurrency markets, most alternative cryptocurrencies (altcoin) were also in the red on Wednesday. At the time of publication, some of the day's biggest losers were tokens associated with the decentralized finance (DeFi) sector, including loopring (LRC), curve (CRV) and solana (SOL), based on data from Messari.
Ether suffered more losses than bitcoin during the late trading after a “potential exploit” of more than 120,000 ether (worth more than $326 million in total) was discovered on cross-chain bridge Wormhole. The popular bridge for connecting Solana and a few other major networks is attempting to negotiate on-chain with the hacker, as CoinDesk reported.
The event is ongoing, with Wormhole tweeting its network is ""down for maintenance"" as the team looks into the issue.
Bitcoin Slides Below $38K; Support Above $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) failed to sustain a bounce above $38,000, although short-term buyers could remain active above the $35,000 support level. Momentum was starting to fade on intraday charts, which means the pullback could continue into the Asia trading day. At the time of publication, bitcoin was trading at about $37,000.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart approached overbought territory on Tuesday, which preceded the current pullback in price. Additionally, the 100-period moving average on the four-hour chart, currently at $38,220, continues to cap brief price gains.
Bitcoin remains in an intermediate-term downtrend since November and has consolidated between $35,000 and $38,000 over the past week. Buyers will need to make a decisive move above $40,000 in order to reverse the downtrend.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia imports/exports (Dec.)
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun (Japan) bank services purchasing managers index (Jan.)
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): National Bank ANZ (New Zealand) commodity prices (Jan.)
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): National Australia Bank's Business Confidence (Q4/QoQ)
5 p.m. HKT/SGT (9 a.m. UTC): Markit Economics services purchasing managers index (Jan.)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Grayscale Launches First Future of Finance ETF (GFOF), Impact of India’s Crypto Tax Proposal, Sheila Warren Joins Crypto Council for Innovation as CEO
""First Mover"" hosts spoke with CoinDesk sister company Grayscale's Global Head of ETF Dave LaValle as the company launches its first exchange-traded fund (ETF) that tracks the Bloomberg Grayscale Future of Finance Index. CoinDesk ""Money ReImagined"" co-host Sheila Warren shared her plan for the Crypto Council for Innovation as she starts her first day as its CEO. Plus, ""First Mover"" offered insights into India's crypto policy change from Tanvi Ratna, founder of Policy 4.0.
Blockchain Bridge Wormhole Suffers Possible Exploit Worth Over $250M: The popular bridge is now attempting to negotiate on-chain with the hacker.
Don’t Listen to Celebrities Shilling Crypto, Says Binance Celebrity Ad: The campaign featuring NBA star Jimmy Butler launches ahead of the Super Bowl, during which Binance rivals FTX and Crypto.com will be running ads.
NFT Platform Pixel Vault Closes $100M Investment: The funding by Velvet Sea Ventures and 01A, the venture capital firm founded by former Twitter CEO Dick Costolo, will help the startup support a range of projects.
Coinbase, Genesis Highlight Massive Institutional Growth at MicroStrategy Conference: More retailers are interested in NFTs, and that can lead them to hold more crypto in their treasuries, says Coinbase Institutional's chief.
Neopets Pitched a Metaverse Pivot. Fans Balked: For many Neopets fans, an effort to bring the early-aughts classic into Web 3 is throwing up red flags.
PayPal Shares Slump as Revenue Growth Slows: The payment giant’s quarterly revenue increased 13% in the fourth quarter, down from a 25% increase a year ago.
What ‘Line Goes Up’ Gets Wrong (and Right) About NFTs: A new documentary makes the case that NFTs are the top of the funnel for this whole crypto-pyramid-scheme-thing.
Today's crypto explainer: Crypto Arbitrage Trading: How to Make Low-Risk Gains
Other voices: ‘I Forgot My PIN’: An Epic Tale of Losing $30,000 in Bitcoin
“The focus has clearly turned to earnings. We’ve seen strong results from big tech companies. But at some point we might have sentiment turning back to macro data and the [U.S. Federal Reserve] – we think we will oscillate between these two points. For financial markets, this means more volatility.” (Luc Filip, head of investments at SYZ Private Banking to The Wall Street Journal) ... ""The carnage marks one of the worst starts to a year for fundamental stock pickers in recent memory. It adds to rare losses many growth and technology hedge funds suffered last year, as expectations of higher interest rates hit many of the stocks they favor."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""There is a fairly large supply and demand gap in the Indian [non-fungible token] market. NFT creators here are proliferating while collectors remain nonexistent. Both sides paint a different picture of how they see the NFT opportunity in India."" (Tanvi Ratna for CoinDesk) ... ""But if you’ve ever had to transact with a Swiss crypto exchange, you probably breathed a sigh of relief upon reading the news, because getting your crypto off a Swiss exchange is a pain in the bum."" (CoinDesk columnist Leah Callon-Butler)"
15,1174,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/03/solanas-sol-tumbles-10-after-326m-wormhole-exploit/,Solana's SOL Tumbles 10% After $326M Wormhole Exploit,"The crypto fell 10% in the past 24 hours, trading at $98 during Asian afternoon hours.",2022-02-03,"The price of Solana’s SOL token dipped below the $100 mark after attackers took advantage of an exploit on Wormhole, a popular bridge between the Solana and Ethereum networks. Bridges are tools that transfer native assets and data between two separate blockchains.
SOL fell 10% in the past 24 hours, trading at $98 during Asian afternoon hours, down from the $110 level during U.S. evening on Wednesday.
Charts show the price of SOL briefly fell below the $98 resistance level before traders pushed the price up to $99 during early Asian hours. The price fell as low as $97.32 before gaining 40 cents at the time of writing.
Nearly $13 million worth of liquidations occurred on futures tracking SOL, according to data from analytics tool Coinglass. Over $5.6 million of these occurred on crypto exchange Binance, followed by $4.26 million on FTX. Liquidations occur when a trader has insufficient funds to keep a leveraged trade open.
The price drop came after Wormhole was exploited on Wednesday night. Wormhole confirmed the exploit in a tweet during early Asian hours on Thursday. Wormhole also said that it will add ether (ETH) over the next hours to ensure wrapped ether (wETH) – a representation of ether on Solana – was backed on a 1:1 basis with ether to prevent malfunctioning of decentralized finance (DeFi) applications.
DeFi applications use smart contracts to provide financial services, such as trading, lending and borrowing, to users. Concerns loomed among traders and developers after the exploit. ""If nobody backs it and the coins are truly gone then Wormhole ETH is worth [zero],"" George Harrap, founder of Solana DeFi platform Step Finance, said in an interview with CoinDesk. ""Everyone who has a balance of it becomes worthless, DeFi protocols, users, everyone.""
Attackers stole over 120,000 wETH by tricking a series of smart contracts on Solana to digitally ""sign"" on an illicit transaction, as reported.
“The attacker could effectively lie about the fact that the signature check program was executed. The signatures weren't being checked at all,” explained Ethereum developer Kelvin Fichter in a tweet. Signature checks are an automatic step used by Wormhole to verify transactions between networks.
After that point, it was game over. The attacker made it look like the guardians had signed off on a 120k deposit into Wormhole on Solana, even though they hadn't. All the attacker needed to do now was to make their ""play"" money real by withdrawing it back to Ethereum.
Sentiment among industry observers on Twitter remained mixed. “This bridge that Solana (sic) hyped as 'secure, trustless' a few months ago just got hacked for 80,000 ether,” tweeted Evan Van Ness, founder of crypto fund Starbloom Ventures.
Adam Cochran, the founder of crypto fund Cinneamhain Ventures, said that blockchain bridges should have inbuilt security mechanisms to control the loss of funds in case of an exploit.
“Feels like bridges should have some sort of second contract that acts like a timelock cold storage,” he tweeted. “Set capital control limits on how much outflow can happen max and has governance voting for a freeze.”"
16,837,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/03/gamestop-taps-immutable-x-for-nft-marketplace-launches-100m-gaming-fund/,"GameStop Taps Immutable X for NFT Marketplace, Launches $100M Gaming Fund",The retail gaming staple is taking a carbon-neutral swing at Web 3 with no shortage of bankroll.,2022-02-03,"After tipping off its plans for the metaverse in a Web 3 job posting in October, GameStop is partnering with Immutable X for the launch of its non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace.
The gaming retail giant said Thursday it tapped the layer 2 system, to be used atop Ethereum, because of Immutable's “zero gas fees for trading and minting NFTs in a carbon-neutral environment,” according to a press release, referring to non-fungible tokens.
GameStop plans for its marketplace to include “billions of low-cost, in-game assets that can easily be bought and sold,” specifically mentioning digital real estate and in-game skins to be included.
The marketplace is tapping Starkware for help with its back end, which is a zero-knowledge proof technology that can combine thousands of Ethereum transactions into one.
Read more: GameStop Enters the Metaverse With ‘Web3 Gaming’ Job Post
GameStop has also partnered with Trace and Cool Effect to “offset its remaining carbon footprint,” in what could be a bid to avoid the backlash that’s become commonplace with mainstream NFT involvement. (FTX similarly purchased carbon offsets before its Coachella NFT announcement.)
Along with the marketplace news, GameStop and Immutable announced the launch of a $100 million fund dedicated to supporting Web 3 game development in its ecosystem.
The fund aims at attracting game developers and studios to the marketplace, becoming just one of many $100 million plus gaming funds to launch in the past few months. (Mechanism Capital, Gala Games, Solana Ventures and Hashed being a few of the others.)
“The GameStop mission is literally power to the players, and that is exactly what we're trying to do here,” Robbie Ferguson, co-founder of Immutable, told CoinDesk in an interview. “The $100 million is a minimum of what we’re doing.”
Immutable raised a $65 million Series B in September led by BITKRAFT Venture and King Rival Capital. Its IMX token was up sharply in early morning trading."
17,483,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/04/metaverse-tokens-axs-sand-plummet-as-meta-reports-10b-loss/,"Metaverse Tokens AXS, SAND Plummet as Meta Reports $10B Loss","A setback in the metaverse strategy of the Facebook parent firm will directly impact the market perception of other metaverses, a developer said.",2022-02-04,"Metaverse-related tokens took a hit in the past two days as Meta, formerly known as Facebook, reported a $10 billion loss on its augmented and virtual reality division in an earnings release earlier this week.
The metaverse broadly refers to a virtual world in which people can interact as they do in the real world, but digitally.
Tokens of blockchain-based games Axie Infinity (AXS), The Sandbox (SAND), and Gala (GALA) fell as much as 12% in the past 24 hours, continuing a slide since Wednesday night.
In early Asian hours on Thursday, AXS fell to under $46 before slightly recovering to $49 in afternoon hours. It traded over $53 before Meta’s earnings release on Wednesday. AXS now sits at support levels last seen in September, before the tokens began a multi-month run to all-time highs of $162 in November.
The drop in token prices was coupled with falling user activity on Axie Infinity, crypto research firm Delphi Digital found, partly in connection with the game’s native smooth love potion (SLP) tokens.
“As SLP prices dip, players suffer as they cannot earn as much when compared to a few months back,” Delphi analysts said in a note. “At its peak, a player could have earned $35 per day on July 21 vs $1 today at current prices (assuming 100 SLP/day). This has led many players to stop playing as the income has been reduced massively.”
Price-charts for SAND and GALA show similar woes. SAND prices dropped 50 cents after Meta’s earnings release, declining as much as 10% in a 24 hour period on Thursday. GALA dipped to $0.18 from $0.20 in the same period. Both tokens gained slightly in Asian morning hours on Friday alongside a recovery in the broader crypto market.
The metaverse concept has gained traction in the past year, alongside the rise of non-fungible tokens (NFT). Metaverse iterations extend from electronics giant Samsung opening a pop-up store in Decentraland to crypto exchanges FTX.US and Binance.US setting up offices in Solana-based Portals.
But reality has been more sobering. Metaverse games continue to cater to a niche in the crypto market, while virtual reality divisions like Meta’s Facebook Reality Labs (FRL) pile on losses.
Some developers say the market performance of traditional companies focused on the metaverse could drive correlations in metaverse-based tokens.
""There surely is a correlation between the success of Meta with its metaverse efforts and the perceived potential of metaverse/play-to-earn projects and tokens,” explained Adrian Krion, CEO of blockchain gaming platform Spielworks, in an email to CoinDesk.
“There's been a surge of interest in the space since Facebook's rebranding, so any setback in Facebook's metaverse strategy will directly impact the market perception of other metaverses,” Krion added.
Others say metaverse tokens are a proxy bet for investors until metaverse stocks gain more traction.
“Without clear utility for the value of the metaverse tokens, it serves as a proxy for investor's sentiments on the future of the metaverse,” said Vincent Choy, ecosystem architect of Oz Finance, in an email to CoinDesk. “I believe that there will correlation between the tokens and stocks until the industry matures a lot more.”
The Facebook Reality Labs (FRL) division made $2.3 billion in revenue in 2021, a fraction of the over $116 billion generated from Meta’s various businesses, such as Facebook, photo-sharing application Instagram and messaging platform WhatsApp.
Meta isn’t retreating despite the losses. CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Wednesday the company's metaverse developments include releasing a high-end virtual reality headset by the end of the year and that the company would continue to work on ""Nazare,"" a pair of fully augmented reality glasses."
18,927,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/02/08/ads-of-the-crypto-bowl/,Ads of the ‘Crypto-Bowl’,Subtitle not found,2022-02-08,"One of the consequences of crypto’s explosive growth throughout 2021 was a parallel boom in marketing.
It didn’t used to be that celebrities would go on late night talk shows and shill their non-fungible tokens. People didn’t even know what NFTs were, really, until last winter.
Now, in 2022, several major sports arenas are named for crypto companies. Matt Damon – he of “Bourne” and “The Departed” – stars in a crypto ad that recently merited a takedown in the New York Times Magazine. This past week, a hollow, golden cube advertising a no-name crypto project appeared in New York City's Central Park. And nearby, overlooking Columbus Circle, you’ll see a banner ad for Gemini, the Winklevoss twins’ crypto exchange.
Crypto feels inescapable this year, and not only for writers at cryptocurrency websites. So it only makes sense that crypto would make its way to this year’s Super Bowl, which – even now, as more and more people turn away from traditional TV broadcasts – remains one of the most visible advertising platforms in the world. Last year, 91 million people watched.
FTX, an exchange that’s already made significant investments in the world of sports marketing, is maybe the least surprising of this year’s crypto entrants.
The Miami Heat’s American Airlines Arena is now named FTX Arena, thanks to a 19-year deal with the franchise. FTX is also the official crypto exchange of Major League Baseball – its logo appears on every umpire’s uniform – and has sponsorship deals with the National Basketball Association’s Golden State Warriors and Washington Wizards. It’s even made a push into esports: FTX has agreed to pay the competitive gaming organization TSM $210 million to add the letters “FTX” to its name.
FTX has already run ads with recently retired pro quarterback Tom Brady, who’s also an investor in the company, so it’s reasonable to expect he’ll show up in the exchange’s Super Bowl ad, too, although there’s no confirmation on that just yet.
The exchange is even planning to give away some bitcoin as part of a promotional push tied to the exact time its ad runs. “If the spot airs at 9:45 [p.m.] ET, they will give away 9.45 BTC to four people,” a representative for FTX told Blockworks.
Crypto.com, the exchange behind the much-derided Matt Damon ads, and a recent partner of basketball icon Lebron James, has also purchased some airtime at this year’s Super Bowl.
The Damon ads generated controversy for their feigned gravity and self-seriousness; in them, the actor strolls through an imaginary landscape, flanked by what the company assures us are history’s greatest heroes and adventurers. It suggests that to purchase cryptocurrency through Crypto.com is to join the ranks of the great strivers – the climbers who scaled Everest or astronauts heading into space.
It’s silly, but here we are talking about it. So maybe the ad did its job. Like FTX, Crypto.com is keeping quiet as to the content of its ad. Super Bowl ads tend to be jokey and lighthearted, so maybe the company will switch it up for the main event.
“Crypto genuinely is for everybody,” said Steven Kalifowitz, chief marketing office at Crypto.com, in an interview with the Wall Street Journal. “Going into different sports just allows me to reach everybody where they are. Super Bowl is just one more step into that, where it’s as mass as you get.”
Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange, is taking a sort of meta tack to its first-ever Super Bowl ad campaign. A teaser, featuring Jimmy Butler of the Miami Heat, warns viewers to beware of companies bearing overly friendly crypto messages.
“On February 13th, you’re going to hear some of the biggest names telling you to get into crypto,” Butler intones. “But they don’t know you, or your finances. Only you do. Binance and I are here to tell you, trust yourself, and of course, do your own research.”
Binance has launched a promo website, cryptocelebalert.com, and plans to give out 2,222 POAPs (commemorative tokens from a company called Proof of Attendance Protocol) to viewers during the game.
Of course, the idea of “doing your own research” is core to crypto’s security philosophy, which privileges individual responsibility above all else – it doesn’t mitigate the dangers.
Read more: This Super Bowl, Don’t Trust Celebrity Crypto Endorsements (Don’t Trust Yourself, Either)
“When you have a lot of celebrities out there telling you to embrace the YOLO culture, to be bold and brave and things of that ilk, it incentivizes people to forego that critical stage of doing their research,” said Binance Chief Communications Officer Patrick Hillmann, taking a direct at the Damon ad. “We want to take this moment in time, when the whole world is watching on Feb. 13, and seeing all these new ads, to just remind people that, hey, yes, we should all be excited about this industry, but we need to be responsible, too.”
Even the Super Bowl’s venue is repping crypto this year – SoFi Stadium is named for a personal finance company and loan platform that has been pushing digital money since before it was trendy.
And while FTX, Crypto.com and Binance are the major confirmed candidates for crypto Super Bowl ads, don’t be surprised if other fintech companies join the crusade.
Advertisers already know they can sell things like insurance and beer to football fans. But sports people also love betting, and there’s data to prove it. No small wonder crypto companies are targeting risk-tolerant audiences like these, as opposed to National Public Radio listeners. DraftKings, the official sports betting partner of this year’s Super Bowl, will debut a commercial of its own during the game.
Expect to see ads from Quickbooks and TurboTax, too, potentially with warnings about the upcoming nightmare of tax season from a crypto perspective.
Meta – not explicitly a crypto company, though the fate of its “metaverse” may end up involving some degree of blockchain tech – will also air a Super Bowl ad this year, for its confusingly named Meta Quest 2 headset. A short promotional clip teases a 1960s era diner called “Questy’s.”
It reminds me a little of the inexplicable 1950s diner in “Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones” in the sense that it represents a lack of imagination. Here’s a universe where you can build anything, a virtual space with endless possibilities for bringing new ideas to life; and here’s … a diner?
Meta’s stock recently suffered its largest single-day drop ever, thanks to a disappointing earnings report. People are generally skeptical about Mark Zuckerberg’s vision for the metaverse, too – maybe the Super Bowl ad will encourage traders to buy the dip.
There was talk of underdog candidates, too, before the market crashed last month. New York Magazine covered a project called SuperDAO, which was looking to raise several million dollars to purchase a Super Bowl ad of its own. It was essentially a clone of ConstitutionDAO, the failed effort to purchase a copy of the US constitution at auction.
SuperDAO failed, too, and now has its sights set on an ad for the 2023 Super Bowl.
In a column for this website, my colleague David Morris wrote about the “Stadium Curse” as it may apply to crypto companies. It’s the idea that when a buzzy new company spends money on the naming rights to a sports arena, it may just be wasting its money – an act of hubris, signaling an inevitable crash.
CGMI, an investment company, had its name on what’s now Gillette Stadium, home of the New England Patriots, for a brief moment, and the Houston Astros baseball team played full seasons at what used to be Enron Field. Both companies went bust after these investments in sports marketing.
Pets.com, one of the short-lived companies most closely associated with the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s, shelled out for a Super Bowl in the year 2000. A recent article in Ad Age collects some of the other relics from that year’s “dot-com bowl,” most from startups that no longer exist.
The Hong-Kong based FTX was founded just two years ago, Binance was started in 2017, and Crypto.com is practically a dinosaur at five years old.
“I do think that it's wise for any company to take a look at how much money they're spending on marketing versus innovation at a moment in time where the ceiling for innovation just feels absolutely endless,” said Binance’s Hillmann.
There’s a chance that this year could go down similarly, as a “crypto bowl.” Maybe, with hindsight, the 2021 mania around crypto will seem quaint: This year’s ads could look like a graveyard of failed companies, each scrambling to make their mark on the culture.
There’s even a site (with a conspicuous, Antiguan web domain) offering prop bets for all the possible crypto-related content at this year’s Super Bowl. Crypto enthusiast Snoop Dogg will be among the performers at the halftime show – will he flash an NFT image on stage? Will Bud Light promote its Noun NFT during its ad? (The answer is yes, it turns out).
Again, it’s unclear how long this sort of hype will last. But at least for the time being, crypto appears to be making the most out of its bargain with professional sports."
19,535,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/13/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-inches-upward-in-sunday-trading/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Inches Upward in Sunday Trading,But the largest cryptocurrency by market cap was way way off last week's levels amid light weekend trading and escalating tensions about a possible war with Russia; ether and most other major cryptos dropped.,2022-02-13,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Market moves: Bitcoin rose slightly on Sunday but was still way off its price of a week ago; most major altcoins dipped over the weekend.
Technician's take: BTC was confined to a tight range over the weekend. Indicators are neutral, although oversold conditions could keep short-term buyers active.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Can You Trust the Celebrity Crypto Endorsements at the Super Bowl This Year? MATIC Token Surges as Polygon Raises $450M to Support Web 3 Plans
""First Mover"" hosts spoke with CoinDesk columnist David Morris for his views on crypto firms such as FTX and Crypto.com becoming major advertising players at this year's U.S. football championship game, the Super Bowl. Polygon co-founder Sandeep Nailwal shared details behind the firm's latest raise that allow it to build Web 3 applications and invest in zero-knowledge technology. Plus, Kareem Sadek of KPMG Canada spoke about the firm's decision to add crypto to its balance sheet.
Bitcoin (BTC): $42,176 +0.1%
Ether (ETH): $2,879 -0.7%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,418 -1.9%
DJIA: 34,738 -1.4%
Nasdaq: 13,791 -2.7%
Gold: $1,858 +1.7%
Bitcoin inched upward on Sunday but remained well off where it started the week amid investors' concerns about ongoing inflationary pressure and a possible war with Russia.
At the time of publication, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading at about $42,200, up slightly over the past 24 hours. Ether and other major altcoins fell. Ether was trading at about $2,880, off slightly.
""Overall, crypto is down this week, including a slide in prices Friday that some believe is correlated to reports of Russian military exercises indicating that an invasion and possible resulting war is imminent,"" said Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull Capital.
Trading volume for the past week was about half its level of a year ago, leading to the high price volatility. ""This week has seen the prices of major cryptos both rise and fall sharply,"" DiPasquale said.
Crypto's choppy performance has largely emulated major stock indexes, which fell sharply on Friday. The S&P 500 dropped nearly 2% on Friday and the tech-focused Nasdaq plummeted 2.7%.
To be sure, bitcoin and ether are up in February after a lackluster first month of the year, although solana and other altcoins are down ""due to jitters over insecurities in the Wormhole protocol,"" DiPasquale noted.
He added that ""anything can happen"" if bitcoin approaches $40,000 because of the lower trading volumes. ""If the support. line holds, we could see a large bounce, but it does not we could see a significant drop,"" he said.
Bitcoin Drops Below $43K; Support at $35K-$40K
Bitcoin (BTC) sellers were active after buyers failed to sustain a break above $45,000 this week. The cryptocurrency was roughly flat over the past 24 hours and was confined to a tight range over the weekend. Initial support at $40,000 could stabilize pullbacks.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart approached oversold territory on Wednesday, which preceded the recent downturn in price. On the weekly chart, however, the RSI is rising from oversold levels similar to what occurred in March 2020, which could keep buyers active over the short term.
Momentum indicators improved on the weekly chart after BTC rose 4% over the past seven days. That suggests a neutral outlook so long as support holds above $35,000-$40,000 over the weekend.
Still, the monthly chart appears bearish similar to July 2018, which was the middle of a crypto bear market.
New Zealand REINZ house price index (Jan. MoM)
Australia housing new home sales (Jan. MoM)
4:30 p.m. HKT/SGT (8:30 a.m. UTC): U.S. 3/6-month bill auction
11:50 p.m. HKT/SGT (3:50 p.m. UTC): Japan gross domestic product (Q4/QoQ preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Can You Trust the Celebrity Crypto Endorsements at the Super Bowl This Year? MATIC Token Surges as Polygon Raises $450M to Support Web 3 Plans
""First Mover"" hosts spoke with CoinDesk columnist David Morris for his views on crypto firms such FTX and Crypto.com becoming advertisers at this year's Super Bowl. Polygon co-founder Sandeep Nailwal shared details behind the firm's latest raise that allow it to build Web 3 applications and invest in zero-knowledge technology. Plus, Kareem Sadek of KPMG Canada spoke about the firm's decision to add crypto to its balance sheet.
The Digital Euro: What We Know So Far: The European Commission is planning to introduce a digital euro bill in 2023, but little is known about the EU’s plans for a central bank-issued digital currency.
FTX US to Launch Stock Trading Soon: The crypto exchange has begun signing up users for a waitlist to use its upcoming stock platform.
OpenSea Expands Into the Venture Capital Business: OpenSea Ventures will be led by OpenSea co-founder Alex Atallah.
Intel Launches Crypto Mining Initiative; Argo, Block to Get First Chips This Year: The chip-making giant is ramping up its crypto mining offerings with a lineup of energy-efficient accelerators.
US Officials Seize $3.6B in Bitcoin From 2016 Bitfinex Hack: Nearly 120,000 BTC was stolen in the hack.
Crypto’s Challenge: Right-to-Privacy vs. Right-to-Know: Two recent stories highlight the tension between an individual's right to anonymity and journalism's public mission.
Today's crypto explainer: Crypto Trading 101: Pivot Points and Why They’re Useful
Other voices: The NFL on display this Super Bowl will seem like a crypto-happy league. It’s anything but.
""Without programmability or access to a public blockchain, existing stablecoin users are unlikely to be won over or to see the value proposition at all. But CBDCs could still be attractive, if they manage to solve interoperability issues between countries’ financial systems."" (EY Global Blockchain Leader Paul Brody for CoinDesk) ... “It’s topsy-turvy. It’s a very uncertain moment of time in the markets as we face a lot of crosscurrents that, frankly, a lot of investors of the current generation have never seen before.” (Jackie Cavanaugh, portfolio manager of the Putnam Focused Equity Fund at Putnam Investments, in The Wall Street Journal) ... ""The recent tumult in stock markets has brought the fairground metaphors flooding back. Should equity investors brace for a sickening lurch downwards? And as they plummet, will the groaning girders beneath them – the infrastructure underpinning markets – hold firm? The structure of finance has changed dramatically since the financial crisis of 2007-09."" (The Economist) ... “It [inflation] kind of cascades from initially a small set of goods to a much larger set of goods.” (Former SEC chief economist, and now Carnegie Mellon professor, Chester Spatt in The Wall Street Journal)"
20,841,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/17/how-the-big-short-dao-bet-against-the-crypto-market-and-won/,How the 'Big Short DAO' Bet Against the Crypto Market and Won,Subtitle not found,2022-02-17,"In late November, a pseudonymous crypto trader behind the Twitter handle @GiganticRebirth issued a warning to his legion of over 85,000 followers.
“High confidence interval that we're very late in the cycle [and that cycles still exist],” he wrote. “Secure your freedom if you've won it.”
@GiganticRebirth, who also goes by GCR (an acronym for Gigantic-Cassocked-Rebirth), said he was feeling increasingly bearish about the cryptocurrency market, which had just enjoyed a 20-month-long bull run that showed no signs of stopping.
As others shilled predictions of “a new crypto supercycle” or “bitcoin to $100K,” GCR was planning a different, contrarian trade: a big short, or a major bet against overvalued altcoins that would generate massive profits if his bearish views played out.
To pull off the trade, he says he assembled a smattering of part-time crypto researchers, ranging from a professional poker champion to a medical student. They shared their findings with each other in a Discord channel and traded on their own.
GCR says he shorted nearly 30 different tokens across multiple exchanges at the height of crypto fervor last November. In January, he tweeted out a screenshot of a trading dashboard from the FTX crypto exchange, purportedly showing big profits from the gambit.
And without quite wanting to reveal his true identity, he now wants to tell his story.
“The market consensus is that no one saw this coming,” GCR told CoinDesk in a phone call. “I saw it coming, I took action.""
Over the past 13 years, the crypto industry has minted billionaires who were early to bitcoin and held onto the asset as its price mounted a seemingly inexorable climb.
But in the notoriously volatile world of cryptocurrencies, timing these rapid market cycles has proved far trickier. In fact, there's no telling whether profitable trades can be replicated in the future.
The crash that started in late 2021 and extended through January sent the total crypto market capitalization plummeting from a high of $3.1 trillion in November to $1.7 trillion in late January, nearly wiping out half of its value. Breaking even during a market downturn is difficult; profiting is even harder.
GCR's tale offers also a window into the quirky world of crypto markets, where individual traders sometimes team up to speculate on volatile asset prices, hoping their collective assessment proves right.
To corroborate the key elements of GCR’s story, a CoinDesk reporter talked to him and several of his collaborators via phone calls, Telegram messages and Discord chats. Nearly all of them declined to provide their real names, asking to be identified only by their pseudonymous Twitter and Discord handles. However, GCR has a reputation, as evidenced by the high five-figure following he has built on Twitter in the past year. He also regularly appears – under the moniker Gigantic-Cassocked-Rebirth – on the FTX exchange’s Top 100 Traders leaderboard, which ranks users by profit and loss. (Currently he’s No. 12).
With faint echoes of “The Big Short,” Michael Lewis’ book (adapted into a hit movie) about Wall Street misfits who bet against the frothy U.S. housing market, here is the story of how one independent crypto trader appears to have predicted last year's market top, collaborating with a ragtag team of alpha hunters.
It all started in October, when a group of crypto traders assembled in a Discord chat to focus on one of the biggest market catalysts of the year: whether the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) would grant approval for a hotly anticipated bitcoin futures exchange-traded fund (ETF).
If the group could spot and digest the decision minutes, even seconds, before the rest of the market, they might be able to profit off a move in bitcoin’s price.
To prepare, the team of pseudonymous collaborators – they didn't share their real names with each other on Discord – spent days researching arcane regulatory filings and coding web-scraping bots.
On Oct. 15, 2021, at 4:15 p.m. ET, a web-scraping bot pinged the Discord group as soon as an announcement went up: A new SEC filing had just been posted regarding the Proshares Bitcoin ETF.
The news: approved (or technically, not opposed). The bot notification gave the group enough time to buy bitcoin before much of the world had time to process the bullish news. The price of bitcoin instantly popped to about $59,000 from $57,100.
The team behind the ETF experiment called itself RebirthDAO, a ""decentralized autonomous organization"" founded by GCR.
In most blockchain-related conversations, a DAO is a decentralized organization powered by a token that confers voting rights; this was really just an informal group that met in a Discord channel.
“The idea was to form a decentralized hedge fund,” GCR told CoinDesk in one of a series of phone calls and Telegram exchanges. “A space where people could get together and look for alpha.”
Alpha refers to the excess returns that some investors seek to pocket above and beyond typical market returns, known as beta. The pursuit often relies on bespoke strategies; in both crypto and traditional financial markets, alpha is difficult to achieve and trading secrets are closely guarded.
“GCR had told me early on that DAOs were going to change the industry,” Discord user fungible0x, a member of the group who acts as liaison between GCR and the moderators, told CoinDesk in a Discord call. “From the beginning, he knew there were many smart minds to collaborate with in crypto. He saw a vacuum for that kind of space.”
When dozens of the most motivated and brightest minds tirelessly research and code for days, they're going to be first movers

The ETF DAO was just a proof of concept in decentralized alpha

We're going to bringing same dedication to every last edge in the market

DAO Rebirth pic.twitter.com/BKJ85l80IS
GCR, the driving leader behind RebirthDAO, regularly ranks high on a closely watched list known as the FTX Top 100 Traders by PNL or “FTX Leaderboard.”
The moniker, he says, was a randomly generated username from FTX that he has stuck with throughout the years.
To prove he was the same trader as shown on the FTX Leaderboard, GCR briefly changed his display name there to a Gmail address, and then communicated with CoinDesk via email with that account.
The leaderboard is not only a scorekeeper for the FTX exchange’s 100 most profitable trading accounts, but also doubles as a who’s who of the crypto industry’s top traders; making the cut is considered an impressive feat. Other highly ranked traders include Three Arrows Capital, seen as an industry heavyweight.
Since mid-2020, GCR has amassed a cultish legion of over 85,000 Twitter followers. The account has attracted speculative retail “copy-traders” who trade according to his recommendations.
His tweets have ranged from theses on shorting frothy metaverse tokens to calling the SHIB run and other dog-coin phenomena.
Imagine not copying @GiganticRebirth
All of his predictions have been 💯 accurate $shib is like +70% pic.twitter.com/oCg1BCyi7Z
Before crypto, GCR says he cut his teeth trading political prediction markets on the popular betting site PredictIt.
In addition to his market calls, his political tweets have ranged from correctly predicting the retirement of Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer to betting on the underdog run of French Presidential candidate Valérie Pécresse.
Since switching over to crypto, GCR’s contrarian market calls have earned him recognition from Three Arrows Capital's Su Zhu.
“For 3 1/2 years, I did not take a single day off,” said GCR when asked about his trading background. “You have to sacrifice literally everything.”
“He’s a benevolent assassin,” RebirthDAO member and Discord user Pxeo said of GCR in a phone call with CoinDesk. “He’s very good at cutting through things to get to the truth of the situation. There are no better market sentiment accounts on Twitter.”
On Nov. 22 - just 12 days after bitcoin peaked around $69,000 but at a time when some commentators were still calling for a $100,000 price by year-end - GCR tweeted out his most controversial prediction yet.
He was “back and shorting” the market, just as bitcoin and Ethereum's ether notched new all-time highs and some crypto traders crowed that a ""supercycle"" might carry prices even higher.
back and shorting https://t.co/SOqm8EtKeV
“You just had every froth indicator. The total market cap of all crypto in November was at its peak, over $3 trillion,” said GCR. “There was peak euphoria and belief in eternal cycles. It was really contrarian at the time.”
In addition to perceiving a gloomy macro climate, GCR also had strong conviction in seasonality. In 2017, just before the last prolonged bear market, bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies had begun falling in December; by early 2018, it was a full-blown meltdown.
Alexa, what month is it? https://t.co/Uif17UeLyr
To GCR, the signs pointed to an obvious new trade: short the market.
He believed the best way to profit off of the inevitable sell-off would be to bet against overbought altcoins, which stood to lose up to 90% of their value in a bear market.
“We knew that the Fed was going to signal a more hawkish stance,” said GCR. (A more aggressive approach by the Fed to tame inflation would undermine the “digital gold” case for bitcoin and/or spur selling by investors who viewed the cryptocurrency as a risk asset. And where bitcoin goes, the rest of crypto follows.)
“Everyone had been saying for all of 2021 that they would sell everything, lock in gains,” GCR went on. “Once the sell-off started to actually happen, people found increasingly convoluted excuses for why the cycle would keep on going.”
After the success of the ETF project, RebirthDAO set its sights on a new trade: a big short.
“Everyone dropped what they were doing and started research on what he presented as the best opportunity,” said fungible0x.
On Nov. 26, GCR put out an open call to his legion of Twitter followers: He was hiring researchers to look into the distribution, unlocking and vesting schedules for dozens of tokens.
Looking to hire someone to research upcoming distribution schedules, unlocks, and vesting schedules for dozens of coins on the market

Send me a DM if you believe you can find precision information

Most interested in tokens distributing most supply first 3 and 6 months of 2022
“The vast majority of the market had a piece of these tokens when they went up,” said Pxeo. “Some people even had them since they were a couple of cents. They thought, ‘How can you short it?’ It’s unnatural.”
Upon an initial coin offering (ICO) or initial exchange offering (IEOs) – somewhat similar to initial public stock offerings, but for cryptocurrencies – projects typically sell a portion of their liquid tokens to the public, while other illiquid portions are allocated among team members, the project's treasury and venture capital investors.
These locked tokens follow a years-long vesting schedule that sets out what percentage of the token supply will be unlocked and eligible to be sold at specific time intervals.
The tokens are typically characterized by a big difference between their fully diluted market capitalization and circulating market capitalization. A high ratio is associated with a large proportion of ""locked"" tokens – those that can't be transacted or traded.
“It creates a level of inflation that will require an incredible amount of new money to sustain the baseline price,” GCR explained to CoinDesk.
Eventually, the thinking went, any unlocks – predetermined schedules at which locked tokens are deemed available for trading – would flood the market with a massive supply of additional tokens, depressing prices.
Although there are nearly 3,000 members in RebirthDAO, only 50 to 60 members have earned an exclusive ""Alpha"" designation, which allows those members to access restricted chat rooms and discussions where profit-generating trading ideas are exchanged.
To gain admission, a prospective member must ""audition"" by sharing some of their winning trading strategies with a handful of DAO administrators, who evaluate candidates based on the quality of their alpha. (No payment is required.)
“It became really clear during the ETF project that there were some superstars,” said fungible0x, who said the DAO closed to new members due to capacity constraints. “We had to really focus the effort. The best way to do that was to create an ‘alpha’ group.”
CoinDesk was granted access by GCR to the group's Alpha chats (without an audition). Conversations in the Discord channels focused on several trading themes, including ""The Big Short,"" ""Macro Task Force"" and ""News Trading,"" as well as multiple web-scraping bots.
According to the group’s ""Introductions"" channel, members’ backgrounds span from former poker champions to medical students, with many having had trading experience in crypto or traditional financial markets.
“The spirit is just sharing and pushing the group to see if we can literally predict what will happen to the market through our ability to research,” said an Alpha member of the group, Pxeo. “Working together, we were definitely getting more information.”
While GCR provided a targeted list of tokens and the central trading thesis, the analysts would independently research the unlocks and then reconvene to iron out any conflicting information.
“Token unlock schedules are surprisingly public, but very vague,” said Pxeo, who contributed to The Big Short project. “They’re usually just a non-interface graph. You have to ask the project devs to verify.”
Alpha members were encouraged to personally speak with the team members assigned to the tokens in question to pinpoint accurate figures, which often diverged from data on sites like CoinGecko or CoinMarketCap.
They also relied on blockchain analysis, such as following project treasury wallets, liquidity provider wallets and project team wallets.
“You can already know on the project side that an unlock is coming, but you don’t know what dates or how many tokens,” said fungible0x. “We looked at anything on-chain and not on-chain to put together the distribution of the specific token in question and verify the unlock schedule.”
After weeks of research, the researchers identified a list of about 30 highest-conviction tokens to short.
“It’s a large project because there were so many coins,” said Pxeo. “But it became obvious in the first two to three days that the best way to short was through the Solana ecosystem.”
Pxeo said some of the identified Solana-based tokens included SERUM, STEP, SOLENS, OXY and FIDA.
“The metaverse coins were also complete garbage,” continued Pxeo. “They had no infrastructure. It was so obvious.”
Other shorted tokens, according to GCR, included Gala’s GALA (-77% from November all-time high), IoTeX’s IOTX (-80%), The Sandbox’s SAND (-64%), Ethereum Name Service’s ENS (-80%), Gitcoin’s GTC (-76%), Livepeer’s LPT (-75%) and Axie Infinity’s AXS (-69%).
These tokens have all massively underperformed bitcoin (-45%) and ether (-49%), as well as the broader cryptocurrency market (-45%).
“Most altcoins will never recover back to their all-time highs,” GCR told CoinDesk.
“The vast majority will trend to zero and be replaced with new narratives and new rotations. Things can go much much lower than people realize.”"
21,665,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/17/helium-network-passing-half-million-hotspots-could-fire-up-hnt-price/,Helium Network Passing Half-Million Hotspots Could Fire Up HNT Price,Subtitle not found,2022-02-17,"The Helium Network, a crypto-powered distributed network of long-range wireless hotspots, has amassed over half a million miners across the world in just two years and is expected to cross the 1 million mark in the next six months.
Now, some crypto-market analysts are asking if Helium’s HNT token is poised to rise in value – and what the risks might be.
A Helium hotspot is a small device that plugs into a regular electric outlet, taps into existing internet service and provides long-range connectivity to Internet of Things (IoT) devices. Hotspot owners are rewarded in cryptocurrency – the HNT tokens – for operating the hotspots.
Helium uses a ""burn-and-mint equilibrium"" token model, with two units of exchange: HNT and Data Credits (DC). Users wanting to use the network to transfer data use DC, which is set at a fixed rate of $0.00001 per 24 bytes of data. When DC is acquired, HNT is burned — reducing the supply of HNT.
So that's what might drive appreciation in the price of HNT: Greater usage of the network would theoretically make the tokens scarcer, and thus more valuable.
Sean Farrell, vice president of digital asset strategy at Fundstrat Global Advisors, told CoinDesk in an interview that based on node growth and adoption, “people might be underestimating how quickly Helium could take the market share from incumbent wireless carriers over the next few years.”
Helium’s HNT token has been trading in the $20-$40 range since the start of the year and is down 32% in the last three months. HNT reached an all-time high of $54.81 in November when bitcoin also reached its all-time high of $68,700. The price is currently around $26, according to data from Messari.
Looking at the current wireless market, Farrell expects the value of holding tokens in the Helium network to be valued higher than equity in a wireless carrier.
He compares Helium with T-Mobile, which currently has the largest existing 5G network and a market capitalization north of $150 billion. Helium currently has a market cap of $2.9 billion.
“Even this comparison falls short since a significant advantage of the network is the decentralization of hardware costs,” said Farrell. He added that the distributed nature of the Helium network also allows for expansion into geographic areas that would otherwise be unprofitable.
“Hence, the market potential for Helium is likely larger than the existing wireless market,” said Farrell.
At the current pace of growth, the network is adding 80,000 new hotspots monthly, according to Frank Mong, Helium’s chief operating officer.
Farrell said that a significant damper for the price right now is the cryptocurrency's general availability to U.S. investors – possibly introducing the risk of regulatory intervention under applicable securities laws.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission defines securities as fungible, negotiable financial instruments that represent some type of financial value, usually in the form of a stock, bond or option.
Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler has previously said: “I think that the securities laws are quite clear. If you’re raising money from somebody else, and the investing public has a reasonable anticipation of profits based on the efforts of others, that fits within the securities law.""
“It’s possible that [HNT] would be considered a security by the SEC and therefore is not listed on any domestic exchanges,” said Farrell.
When asked whether Helium was concerned whether HNT might be deemed a security, Helium’s Mong said, “We feel confident that our HNT incentive-based network serves a utility purpose to connect sensors to the internet. Ultimately, that is a question best left to a regulatory body.”
Coinbase, the biggest U.S. crypto exchange, does not currently list HNT. The token is listed on FTX’s international exchange and Binance.US.
Coinbase has flirted with the idea of listing HNT, but there has been no follow up so far. In July 2020 the company wrote in a blogpost it had added HNT as an “asset under review” and that it was “conducting engineering work to potentially support the assets.”
CoinDesk reached out to Coinbase to ask whether it had plans to list HNT this year and a spokesperson responded with, “We don't comment on specific assets.”
“I wouldn’t be surprised if Coinbase lists HNT soon,” said Gerald Votta, head of GameFi research at Quantum Economics. “With A16Z already having invested a lot of money in Helium, I think Coinbase will list eventually, '' added Votta. A16Z is shorthand for Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm that's investing heavily in the crypto industry. In August, A16Z alongside others invested $111 million into the Helium Network.
""Helium represents an entirely new business model for deploying wireless networks at scale at a fraction of the cost,"" Ali Yahya, general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, said at the time in a statement. “Helium built and deployed an entirely new wireless network from scratch and achieved global adoption across more than 11,000 cities around the world in less than 24 months. It is the fastest rollout of a new wireless network ever, a truly impressive and remarkable feat.”
According to Votta, HNT is priced a little over fair value.
“This is because the only real use case for Helium is to use HNT to pay rewards to miners,” said Votta. “Until Helium adds more circles to its Venn diagram and has more utility, the speculators are in control.”
Adam Nasli, head analyst at international broker BrokerChooser disagrees with Votta's take, saying that Helium’s real-world use case gives the project a valuable edge.
“Through physical devices, hotspot owners provide wireless connectivity for real companies and real people,” said Nasli. Lime, the scooter- and bike-sharing company, uses Helium to track the locations of its units.
Farrell predicts that once Helium rolls out 5G miners, a few more partnerships and establishes on-chain governance, “the network will garner more retail attention and actual usage.”
In October, DISH, a U.S. direct-broadcast satellite provider, announced a partnership with Helium. The company was the first major carrier to use the Helium Network’s blockchain-based model with customers deploying their own 5G hotspots.
Votta predicts that after the DISH partnership progresses, the ecosystem will expand with multiple new use cases, pushing the price of the token up.
Nasli notes that some investors might still be hesitant about Helium because HNT’s value is largely driven by the wider crypto market, making it unpredictable and volatile. There is a strong correlation between the prices for bitcoin and HNT; over the last three months, the correlation works out to 0.8.
“This high correlation makes it unpredictable, affecting its value,” said Nasli.
CORRECTION (Feb. 18, 12:07 UTC): Corrects Data Credit price to $0.00001 from $0.0001."
22,221,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/18/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-nears-40k-gaming-flips-defi/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Nears $40K, Gaming Flips DeFi","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for Feb. 18, 2022.",2022-02-18,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin remains under pressure as a long holiday weekend in the U.S. keeps risk appetite under check.
Featured stories: Traditional markets suggest bitcoin may bottom out after March rate hike. Gaming flips DeFi in terms of active user wallets.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show ""First Mover,"" hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time. Today's show will feature guests:
Sergey Gorbunov, CEO and founder, Axelar
Jordan Sherman, CEO, Immortals
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin was trading flat to negative even as the European stocks and the S&P 500 futures got a slight tailwind from reports that the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has accepted a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov late next week; subject to ""no further Russian invasion of Ukraine.""
The cryptocurrency saw a minor bounce earlier but failed to retake the bullish trendline. The daily chart relative strength index has dipped into a bearish territory below 50, suggesting scope for continued decline.
A long holiday weekend in the U.S. and a great geopolitical uncertainty is likely to keep risk appetite in check during Friday's North American session, as Bannockburn Global Forex's Marc Chandler said in a blog post. U.S. financial markets will be closed on Monday in observance of Presidents' Day.
Some analysts foresee a deeper decline if geopolitical tensions escalate further. ""Bitcoin is the ultimate risky asset, and a Ukraine invasion would keep crypto selling pressure going another 10-15% over the short term,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda, said in an email.
Besides, Federal Reserve rate hike fears and regulatory concerns might keep bullish moves, if any, under check.
Calls for a 50 basis point interest rate hike in March have grown louder following the data released early this week, showing that U.S. consumer price inflation rose to an annualized 7.5% in January, the highest level in 40 years. The Fed funds futures are priced for five rate hikes this year.
According to a report by Yahoo, President Joe Biden could issue an executive order next week directing government agencies to study cryptocurrencies and a central bank digital currency (CBDC) and come up with a strategy to regulate digital assets. The President's working group on financial markets is already scrutinizing systemic risks posed by stablecoins – in this case, dollar-backed cryptocurrencies.
""Uncertainty for stablecoins is a short-term negative for cryptos, but overall long-term growth for the crypto-verse will embrace U.S. regulation,"" Moya said.
DIA, an Ethereum token governing the open-source Web 3 data and oracle platform Decentralized Information Asset (DIA), has been up 30% in the past 24 hours.
The bullish move comes after DIA announced it would include the U.K. FCA-regulated crypto index provider CF Benchmarks' reference rates as feeds in its data offering. CF Benchmarks is one of the leading crypto index providers whose Bitcoin Reference Rate is used by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange to settle bitcoin futures and options.
""ETH and SOL reference rates will be provided to both Ethereum-native and Solana-native developers. The availability of institutional-grade, Benchmark Regulation compliant reference rates will enable secure development of new financial products and services underpinned by resilient and robust methodologies in Web 3,"" DIA said in a blog post published Thursday.
US Agencies Seized Around $30M of Crypto Related to NetWalker Ransomware Last Year
Hackers Behind AscendEX Breach Move $1.5M Ether to Uniswap
Smarter Smart Contracts With Artificial Intelligence
CoinGecko's Bobby Ong on the Metaverse
Terra, CEO Do Kwon Ordered to Comply With SEC Subpoena Related to Mirror Protocol Investigation
China Casts Long Shadow Over Hong Kong's Once-Vibrant Crypto Industry
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin is just 13 years old with hardly any historical data to look into for clues on how it may perform during the impending Fed tightening cycle, widely expected to begin next month.
However, the dollar and stocks might help in this case. Past data shows the greenback typically peaks after the first Fed rate hike. A strong dollar is generally considered bearish for bitcoin and vice versa.
According to Bloomberg, the S&P 500 has averaged a 9% gain in 12 rate-rising cycles since the 1950s. With increased institutional participation since March 2020, bitcoin has moved in tandem with the stock markets more often than not.
So, bitcoin could regain poise following the March rate hike unless the central bank raises borrowing costs by 50 basis points or more and keeps doors open for four more hikes by the year's end.
According to Dan Morehead, CEO and founder of Pantera Capital, bitcoin could be the best place to park funds during the Fed rate hike cycle.
""I think our markets will decouple soon. Investors are going to think: bonds are going to get crushed as the Fed goes from the only buyer on Earth to seller. Rising rates will make equities and real estate less attractive. So, where does one invest when both stocks and bonds are falling? (Normally they are negatively correlated.) Blockchain is a very legit place to invest in that world,"" Moorhead said in the newsletter published on Feb. 16.
By Omkar Godbole
Data tracked by CryptoRank show that unique active wallets connected to gaming surpassed those associated with decentralized finance (DeFi) in 2021 and accounted for 49% of the blockchain industry's usage.
""Gaming has become one of the biggest growth areas in crypto. The first wave of games are play to earn (P2E) like Axie or DeFi Kingdoms because they are easier to deploy, requiring less intense graphics and mechanics,"" Ilan Solot, a partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email.
""The main appeal for P2E is participating in the game’s economy in some way, so, naturally, many DeFi users (especially yield farmers) would quickly jump on board. There is a lot of overlap,"" Solot added.
While gaming sector is booming and often considered recession proof, the fortunes of gaming tokens and other sub-sector coins remain tied to bitcoin, perhaps due to a lack of education across retail and new professional investors, as Arca's Jeff Dorman pointed out in a blog post published last month.
""Many digital assets should behave more like consumer staples than profitless tech companies due to the high revenues and cash yields, but the market doesn’t seem quite ready to draw a distinction between tokens of recession-proof gaming companies (e.g. ,AXS) and high cash flow exchange companies (e.g., FTT, SUSHI) versus protocols with no cash flows (e.g. BTC) or early-stage products with little fee generation (e.g., SOL, AVAX),"" Dorman said."
23,1178,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/21/first-mover-asia-taiwan-singapore-are-not-stablecoin-fans-major-cryptos-decline-as-russia-invasion-looms/,"First Mover Asia: Taiwan, Singapore Are Not Stablecoin Fans; Major Cryptos Decline as Russia Invasion Looms","Taiwan and Singapore are wary of ceding control of their currencies; bitcoin, ether and most other major cryptocurrencies fell as Russian President Vladimir Putin made a defiant case for invading Ukraine.",2022-02-21,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Market moves: Bitcoin and most major cryptos sank amid escalating tensions on the Russia-Ukraine border. A speech by Russian President Vladimir Putin drew the world closer to war.
Insights: Taiwan and Singapore are not stablecoin fans.
Technician's take: Due to the U.S. Presidents' Day holiday, Technician's Take is on hiatus.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Bitcoin (BTC): $37,507 -3.1%
Ether (ETH): $2,606 -1.6%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,348 -0.7%
DJIA: 34,079 -0.6%
Nasdaq: 13,548 -1.3%
Gold: $1,904 +0.2%
Most major cryptocurrencies fell on Monday as a Russian invasion of the Ukraine loomed closer. In a televised address to his country, Russia President Vladimir Putin said he would recognize two pro-Russia breakaway republics in eastern Ukraine and made a case for invading Ukraine, saying that the country's pro-Western government was a threat to Russia.
Earlier in the day, a Kremlin spokesperson said there were no ""concrete plans"" for a summit between Putin and U.S. President Joe Biden as some 150,000 Russian troops have reportedly inched nearer to the Ukraine border. In recent weeks, worried investors have been adopting more risk-averse strategies in anticipation of rising energy prices and sanctions by the U.S. and its European allies on Russia, and Russian retaliation that will likely affect a global economy already hammered by inflation and supply chain delays.
Following Putin's speech, the Biden administration announced penalties against the breakaway Ukraine republics. The per barrel price of brent crude oil jumped past $97, a nearly 4% spike.
At the time of publication, bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was trading trading at about $37,500, down over 3% for the previous 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was off about 1.6% over the same period. Other major cryptos were in negative numbers.
U.S. equity markets were closed for the national Presidents' Day holiday, but leading European stock exchanges, including the FTSE 100, the DAX in Frankfurt and CAC 40 in Paris, finished in the red. Most major Asian indexes also lost ground on Monday, including the Japanese Nikkei 225, the Hong Kong Hang Seng and the Asia Dow.
‘’Such is the sensitivity on the financial markets right now, temporary confidence can evaporate rapidly and that’s what we’ve seen today after what appears to be another deterioration in relations between Russia and Western powers,"" wrote Susannah Streeter, senior Investment and markets analyst for U.K.-based financial services firm Hargreaves Lansdown, in an email.
Not Every Currency Can be a Stablecoin
Stablecoins have been the best thing ever for the hegemony of the U.S. dollar as the digitization of fiat currency into tokens overwhelmingly favors the greenback.
But as crypto is naturally home to dollar skeptics, certainly there must be a move to create stablecoins with alternative denominations. There’s a version of tether denominated in euros, and there are stablecoin projects denominated in Singapore’s dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah, but these are three of the hundreds of currencies out there. Certainly there’s a demand for more, right?
The problem is many smaller economies aren’t huge fans of the internationalization of their currency and ceding control. There aren't the right ingredients for a locally denominated stablecoin to take off in those countries.
Consider Taiwan. Over the weekend Leo Seewald, the former head of BlackRock Taiwan, and now a director at Taipei-based exchange MaiCoin, discussed its new Taiwan-dollar (TWD) stablecoin. The project’s webpage cites “reducing the capital cost of local and cross-border transactions without intermediary” as a benefit of the project.
But that goes against a pillar of Taiwan’s central bank’s monetary policy.
Taiwan has strict capital controls on its currency – exporting Taiwan dollars is strictly forbidden, with few exceptions. The central bank doesn’t want the Taiwan dollar to be used offshore as the democratically run island's arch-rival, China, could use an offshore TWD as a weapon by market-making an unofficial exchange rate through buying and dumping the currency at a disadvantageous price.
The central bank is also not a big fan of the Taiwan dollar being used to settle transactions that don’t have a direct nexus to Taiwan, something a stablecoin is specifically designed to do. Last year the bank handed down significant fines against Deutsche Bank, ING and ANZ for letting commodity traders price grain contracts between Brazil, India, and other third countries in TWD despite the deal having no nexus to Taiwan. In theory, this won’t work because the currency can’t be exported off-island, but the banks used a synthetic proxy for the TWD – a forex instrument called a non-deliverable forward – to get around this.
And then there’s the export market. As an economy heavily reliant on exports it would really sting if the local currency began to appreciate. Given the importance of Taiwan’s semiconductors, and the government’s usually balanced budgets, one would think the TWD would be headed towards the stratosphere. Not so, because of regular interventions in the FX market by the central bank to control the appreciation of the TWD. Very slow and steady wins the race, the bank believes.
The mother of all ironies is that Taiwan is deemed to be more of a currency manipulator than China because of lack of transparency on the issue; everyone knows the RMB is pegged and only trades within a specific band.
Just don’t call Taiwan a currency manipulator. Or say it has capital controls. That gets central bankers and the diplomatic corps mad. In 2011, the governor of Taiwan’s central bank scolded reporters when addressed with the question. Foreign investors can buy equities and move all the foreign currency they want through Taiwan, he said. Just don’t touch our precious TWD.
Stablecoins can throw a wrench into all of this.
A carefully managed currency from an export-driven economy with a geopolitical foe next door isn’t the best candidate to be deployed to the free-for-all that is the crypto market.
Pricing crypto contracts in TWD, or having it be used as a medium of settlement via digital asset on-ramps or off-ramps is going to blow away all the tenants of the Central Bank’s decades of policies and punishments.
The international grain market has nothing on crypto for volatility.
Singapore isn’t a huge fan of the internationalization of its currency either. As Singapore is a largely importing nation, given its lack of natural resources, it strives for exchange rate stability and doesn’t want international deals with no nexus to the country priced in its currency. Denominate that in U.S. dollars, please.
But for stablecoins to get on the radar of these respective banks, they need to be bigger first. A lot bigger. Currently, the TWDC has minted 7.8 million Taiwan dollars of its tokens, or around $283,000; Singapore’s xSGD is further along, with a market cap of $185 million. Far from enough to complement the currency (the kind that Bloomberg’s Mike McGlone argues tether is to the dollar), but also far from enough to be the threat to the economy that the White House claims stablecoins are.
Asia is going to be trading in USD-denominated stablecoins for the foreseeable future. And that’s a feature, not a bug.
Due to the U.S. Presidents' Day holiday, Technician's Take is on hiatus.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT (1 a.m. UTC): Speech by Reserve Bank of Australia Assistant Governor Christopher Kent
10 a.m. HKT/SGT (2 a.m. UTC): New Zealand credit card spending (Jan. YoY)
6:45 p.m. HKT/SGT (10:45 a.m. UTC): Speech by Royal Bank of England Deputy Governor for Markets and Banking David Ramsden
10 p.m. HKT/SGT (2 p.m. UTC): U.S. housing price index (Dec. MoM)
11 p.m. HKT/SGT (3 p.m. UTC): U.S. consumer confidence (February)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of The Hash on CoinDesk TV:
Court Orders Freeze of Canada ‘Freedom Convoy’ Crypto Accounts, Sequoia Raising $600M Crypto Fund and More
""The Hash"" tackles today's hot topics: Crypto accounts of Canadian ""Freedom Convoy"" leaders frozen, bipartisan group of U.S. senators raise alarm over El Salvador's bitcoin adoption, Sequoia Capital is raising up to $600 million for its first crypto fund and growing questions about NuMiner's bitcoin mining rig.
Ukraine Update: Putin Recognizes Two Breakaway Regions, Biden Responds With Sanctions: The increase in tension on Monday sent U.S. stock index futures to session lows and bitcoin back towards the bottom of its recent price range.
Bitcoin Stabilizes After Dipping to 2-Week Low of $37K: The cryptocurrency last traded at $37,000 two weeks ago, on Feb. 4.
FTX Starts Gaming Unit to Promote Crypto Adoption: Report: ""There are 2 billion plus gamers in the world who have played with and collected digital items, and can now also own them.""
Making Sense of India's New Crypto Rules: India's first concrete steps in acknowledging crypto may be here to stay, having spurred both excitement and confusion over whether the country is approving crypto as an asset.
Today's crypto explainer: Why TVL Matters in DeFi: Total Value Locked Explained
Other voices: What’s at Stake for the Global Economy if Russia Invades Ukraine
“Russia is incredibly unimportant in the global economy except for oil and gas. It’s basically a big gas station.” (Harvard economist and former President Obama adviser Jason Furman, to The New York Times) ... “As for those who captured and are holding on to power in Kyiv: We demand that they immediately cease military action. If not, the complete responsibility for the possibility of a continuation of bloodshed will be fully and wholly on the conscience of the regime ruling the territory of Ukraine.” (Vladimir Putin in a televised address) ... Ethereum politics is still essentially a capitalist framework, as speaker Abbey Titcomb of Radicle emphasized. But what separates Ethereum politics from the type of hyper-capitalist libertarianism often advocated by bitcoiners is a clear-eyed acceptance that markets as currently structured fail, again and again, in predictable and well-understood ways and need both restructuring and supplementing."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris)"
24,1175,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/02/22/the-7-types-of-crypto-tax-nightmares/,The 7 Types of Crypto Tax Nightmares,Subtitle not found,2022-02-22,"Thabo Abbate, a CPA who does accounting for cryptocurrencies, has seen plenty of tax nightmares. But this one still gets him.
His client was a yoga instructor. She lived in New York and made less than $50,000 per year, and in 2016, she started trading crypto. On Twitter, she found some “crypto trading influencers” and used their advice to make trades. At first she only invested a little bit of money. But the trades worked. “It was 2016, and if you just threw a dart at a coin you’d make money back then,” Abbate says now.
This piece is part of CoinDesk’s Tax Week
The yoga instructor, emboldened, decided to place bigger bets. Why not make some real money? So she started to trade on margin. She mostly copied the trades of some crypto trading influencers, and, once again, they started to work. She took around $1,000 of capital and turned it into $100,000. She had done it.
“Then the tax bill comes due,” said Abbate. The yoga instructor would have been fine if she sold her $100,000 portfolio and tucked a portion away for taxes. But of course she didn’t do that – many crypto traders don’t. Instead, she kept trading on margin. And eventually she lost all of her crypto.
Now she had to pay taxes on this $100,000 capital gain … but with nothing left in the bank. “The tax bill was basically more than she could earn in a year,” said Abbate.
Welcome to the horror stories of Crypto Tax Nightmares. They usually look something like this: You mess around with crypto, you make some money, you don’t think about taxes, then the market drops and BOOM suddenly you’re underwater.
Crypto Reddit is littered with these kinds of sad stories, such as the office assistant with a salary of $47,000 who racked up a $50,000 tax bill – that he couldn’t pay – concluding that “I feel like I might have accidentally ruined my life.”
Or the crypto trader who realized, in horror, “My country will get marginally richer because I f**ked up my tax planning,” and that “after they'll take everything I have, I'll still be in debt for the rest of my life.”
From conversations with tax experts, these nightmares come in seven forms:
The biggie. They usually look like this: “I found Bitcoin in 2017. It was so exciting. I started trading the altcoins trying to make more bitcoin,” said Brady Swenson, the vice president of education and marketing at Swan Bitcoin, a service that offers automated bitcoin buying plans. “I made hundreds, maybe thousands, of trades,” he noted.
Swenson had never traded stocks before. He had never traded forex. He had never traded anything, and he had no idea there were tax implications. He never set anything aside. And in the meantime, the price of bitcoin cratered. So when tax season rolled around, “I had to sell over half my bitcoin just to pay the bill.”
Swenson is in fine company. “That’s definitely the biggest ‘Oh S**t Moment,” said David Kemmerer, CEO of CryptoTrader.Tax, a tax software startup. He saw this dynamic in both 2018 and now in 2022. “We’ve had it twice now,” said Kemmerer. “A huge bull market leading up to the end of the year,” and then a bear market when people need to liquidate to cover their taxes.
Or take the plight of a 31-year-old real estate agent in Chicago: “I dabbled in trading altcoins back in 2017,” he said. This “dabbling” made him around $650,000 in profits. Like Swenson, he had no idea he had to pay taxes on these trades, and when the tax man came, his crypto holdings plunged by 50%. “I was seriously screwed.” He owed $120,000 in taxes, and to pony up the money he had to liquidate his bitcoin … at the very bottom of the market. “Not only did it hurt me financially, but it also was a pain in the ass getting all my trading information and manually recording the trades one by one.”
Yet another example of this sad story: “Kevin Cage,” who worked in cybersecurity, thought he had a good 2017 trading crypto. His once-modest account soon swelled to several hundred thousand dollars (even though it was mostly “just pure luck and gambling”) … and you can see where this is headed. The market crashed, the tax bill arrived, and he had to liquidate his holdings to pay the $100,000 tab. “It made me sick to my stomach,” said Cage.
He lost sleep. He cut back on restaurants and scrapped plans for vacations. “It’s the worst feeling in the world,” he said. “People think you made a lot of money in crypto, and you talked about the wins, but at the end of the year you wished you took profits.” (This one has a happier ending. Cage bounced back, is a crypto millionaire living in Puerto Rico, and 130,000 people subscribe to his trading videos.)
Read More: US Crypto Tax Guide 2022
Many people think that once you’ve swapped your fiat for bitcoin or Ethereum, at that point, it’s in the realm of “Magic Crypto Money” and then, for days or weeks or even years, nothing is taxed until it’s converted back to fiat. Nope.
“I wish it worked that way,” said Kemmerer, but he sees clients regularly get hosed because they misunderstood how it works. “This one guy had acquired over 100 ethereum early on, in 2015, back when it was still cheap,” he said. Then, in 2021, he sold some of his Ethereum to buy non-fungible tokens (NFTs), thinking it was all in Magic Crypto Money Land. “He racked up over a $100,000 tax bill. It was a shock.”
Another common nightmare: Making a flurry of trades across a range of platforms – Coinbase, Binance, FTX, Kucoin, Huobi and on and on – and not keeping records of your transactions. Each trade is a taxable event.
In 2017, Michelle O'Connor used a bot algorithm to automatically make trades while at Uphold (a trading platform). Not 10 trades or 100 trades. “I had like 20,000 or 30,000 trades,” she said, laughing now. Oops!
(O'Connor solved the nightmare by becoming TaxBit’s first customer; she was so impressed with the tax software startup that she later joined the team as the vice president of marketing.)
Read More: You May Owe Crypto Taxes on These Surprising Things in 2022
In 2017, Shehan Chandrasekera, the head of tax at Coin Tracker, once worked with a limo driver who traded crypto as a side hustle. The driver made $150,000 in profit. Not too shabby. Maybe he could go from driving a limo to owning a Lambo?
Concerned, Chandrasekera asked the limo driver, “Hey, do you have the cash to pay your taxes?”
The driver was stunned. He hadn’t thought about taxes. And by the time his tax bill was due – in an all-too familiar story – the price had fallen and he sold at a loss. “He had never seen those kinds of gains in his life,” said Chandrasekera, and the driver had to set up a payment plan with the IRS. “There are so many stories like this,” said Chandrasekera. “Whenever the market goes up, that’s when all the people rush into the market. People got into bitcoin around $69,000, and now they’re underwater.”
In 2017, all holders of bitcoin were air-dropped sums of bitcoin cash. One of Kemmerer’s clients owned a ton of bitcoin – a whale – and he was air-dropped $2 million worth of bitcoin cash. “He didn’t realize that the IRS treats a hard fork as a taxable event,” said Kemmerer, and he was later slapped with a surprise tax bill. (That said, it’s hard to shed too many tears for someone who receives $2 million literally out of thin air.)
But a more relatable nightmare: “Let’s say you’re generating yield, or providing liquidity,” said Kemmerer, such as receiving interest from the Compound token. “Every time you’re getting those rewards, that’s taxable income.”
Read More: Your Staking Rewards Are Still Taxable
“A lot of people think you only pay taxes at the end of the year. That’s not the case,” said Chandrasekera. As every freelancer knows, you’re expected to pay quarterly taxes if they’re not being withheld from your paycheck. But that’s also true if you’re buying and selling NFTs, said Chandrasekera. “If you’re just selling NFTs on OpenSea you have to do that, or you’re going to get penalized.”
Finally, the most important nightmare is the one that you don’t know about yet. Many of the horror stories that TaxBit’s O'Connor heard from the 2017 tax year weren’t felt by her clients until 2019 or even 2020. “What people don’t realize is that the IRS is on a two-to-three year lag,” she said. “Just because you didn’t hear something doesn’t mean you’re not going to.”
So if you have a sinking feeling in your stomach that you flubbed your crypto taxes but maybe it’s OK, because the IRS didn’t notice?
You can breathe easy … in a decade.
To offset the impact of rising inflation, the IRS has revised a number of tax provisions to let people keep more of their money in their wallets for the 2022 tax year.
U.K. citizens that invested or dealt with crypto over the last year may be required to pay taxes on their trades. Here's what you need to know.
Like many jurisdictions, crypto assets are treated as ""property"" in Canada, meaning investors will owe taxes to the Canadian Revenue Agency (CRA) in certain situations."
25,1172,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/25/short-positions-see-143m-in-liquidations-as-bitcoin-ether-gain-10/,"Short Positions See $143M in Liquidations as Bitcoin, Ether Gain 10%",The crypto market rallied on Friday to almost fully retrace losses from Thursday’s declines.,2022-02-25,"Traders betting against a rise in cryptocurrencies suffered losses of up to $143 million in the past 12 hours as global markets recovered from Thursday's declines.
Bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and other major cryptocurrencies have added close to 10% in 24 hours, almost regaining Wednesday night’s levels. Bitcoin traded near $38,400 at the time of publication, up from Thursday’s low of $34,725.
The rebound, which started in U.S. morning hours on Thursday, caused over $184 million worth of losses due to liquidations on crypto-tracked futures in the past 12 hours. Some 73% of traders were short the market, or betting against a rise, data from analytics tool Coinglass showed.
Over $52 million of shorts were liquidated on crypto exchange OKX, the most among other crypto futures exchanges, with $23 million stemming from bitcoin-tracked futures alone. Binance followed next, with $25 million in losses from liquidated shorts, with FTX at $16 million.
Overall in the past 12 hours, $89 million of bitcoin-tracked futures were liquidated, $53 million in ether-tracked futures and $5.86 million in futures tracking Terra’s LUNA token.
The losses contributed to a 24-hour total liquidations figure of $405 million. Some 83,000 individual trading accounts suffered losses, with the largest liquidation order occurring on BitMEX for a bitcoin futures trade valued at over $7.95 million.
Rebounds in cryptocurrencies followed similar moves in global markets. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index, which tracks companies in Asia, rose almost 1% on Friday after dropping 3.1% on Thursday. Benchmark equity indexes rose across Europe, with the Stoxx Europe 600 index adding more than 1%. In the U.S., the S&P 500 stock index closed 1.5% higher Thursday as the country tightened sanctions against Russia.
Some analysts say demand for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could mount in the coming days because they are seen as liquid instruments.
“Right now, the markets have the highest demand for liquid instruments, making bitcoin slightly less of a risk than altcoins,” Alex Kuptsikevich, a senior financial analyst at FxPro, said in an email to CoinDesk. “It is likely that a further deterioration in the financial situation could benefit the first cryptocurrency as a means of capital savings for investors from Ukraine, Russia and some nearby countries."""
26,1176,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/01/first-mover-asia-chinas-potential-swift-competitor-cips-lacks-reach-bitcoin-ether-rise-again/,"First Mover Asia: China’s Potential SWIFT Competitor CIPS Won't Help Russia Much; Bitcoin, Ether Rise Again",The Chinese system has just 75 members and processes only a fraction of the transactions that SWIFT handles.,2022-03-01,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Markets: Cryptos continued their momentum from Monday.
Insights: China's interbank payment system lacks the reach to replace SWIFT.
Technician's take: BTC buyers could remain active at lower support levels, particularly at $40K.
And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $44,224 +2.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,959 +1.7%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptocurrencies continued their momentum from Monday even as Russia escalated its efforts to take control of Ukraine.
On Tuesday, a 40-mile-long Russian convoy of armored vehicles, tanks and towed artillery chugged relentlessly toward Kyiv. Ukraine's capital and Kharkiv, its second largest city, were rocked by rocket explosions as an estimated half-million people, including foreign nationals who study and work in Ukraine, fled the country.
Crypto's performance veered markedly from equities, particularly risk-on stocks. Among the major indexes, the S&P 500 and tech-heavy Nasdaq fell 1.6% and 1.5%, respectively. A number of analysts say that the invasion has highlighted cryptos' potential usefulness for investors.
According to an estimate by Forklog, a Russian-language crypto news outlet, various organizations raising crypto for Ukraine have received over $58 million in donations over the past six days. And Arcane Research in a Tuesday report wrote that Ukrainians were ""buying crypto as never before,"" fearful that the country's banking system ""may collapse.""
Meanwhile, Russian investors have been looking at crypto as a workaround to economic sanctions by the European Union and U.S. In its report, Arcane Research wrote of a ""massive increase in the ruble pairs on Binance, particularly in USDT,"" and in bitcoin volume. The group speculated that Russians were seeking ""stablecoins to get dollar exposure ahead of possible sanctions directed toward Russian crypto traders,"" or because ""market makers seeking to eliminate their ruble exposure.""
At the time of publication, bitcoin was trading at about $44,200, up about 3% over the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market cap, was changing hands at a little below $3,000, a more than 2% increase. Almost all other altcoins in the CoinDesk top 20 by market cap were trading higher, with SHIB and SAND both up about 5%.
""Investors are speculating that crypto will become increasingly important as apolitical, trustless money in a time of escalating geopolitical uncertainty,"" Arcane Research wrote.
S&P 500: 4,306 -1.5%
DJIA: 33,294 -1.7%
Nasdaq: 13,532 -1.6%
Gold: $1,945 +1.9%
Wannabe SWIFT competitor CIPS doesn't have the reach to help Russia much
As the reality of sanctions sinks in for Russia – an energy superpower and a top 15, global economy – so do the warnings that this is a moment for China’s financial infrastructure to shine.
China’s Cross-Border Interbank Payment System (CIPS) can step up to the occasion to replace the SWIFT interbank messaging service, argued some observers, for Russian banks that are now disconnected from the world.
“When payment systems are politicized, then you have to be sure you're on the right side of the leviathan at all times,” is how one ex-venture capitalist put it in his Twitter thread.
(It's unclear if the civilians in Ukraine who are being bombed think of their situation as being ""politicized"" or have a stronger term for it.)
Despite numerous calls that these sanctions are the beginning of the twilight of dollar hegemony, China’s financial infrastructure just isn’t up to the task of replacing it.
It’s important to remember just how small CIPS really is.
According to data published on its website, the service pushed through 388 billion RMB, or $61 billion a day, in February. Binance does that in turnover in less than 72 hours, and FTX, another crypto exchanges, does it in 18 days.
Of course, those comparisons are specious; Binance CEO Changpeng Zhou and FTX Trading CEO Sam Bankman-Fried aren’t our new financial overlords. They just run exchanges. We aren’t going to pay for things in Binance’s BNB or BUSD tokens.
But the idea that CIPS could seriously compete with SWIFT is also specious when some crypto exchanges are already larger entities.
The system still relies on SWIFT for messaging (the bank-to-bank ledgers that show fund transfers). While CIPS can do transfers within China and Hong Kong, moving funds abroad requires SWIFT’s rails. And that’s going to make the whole operation redundant as sanctioned Russian banks can’t touch SWIFT.
So then how big is CIPS compared to SWIFT? Really, really small.
According to its own stats, SWIFT pushes through 50 million messages a day compared with CIPS' 15,000. And its daily volume? SWIFT messages enable $5 trillion to move worldwide each day.
SWIFT counts 11,000 members as institutions. CIPS has 75 direct participants and 1,205 indirect participants. There just isn’t a comparison in size and scale.
If there’s a ‘bull case’ for CIPS rocketing to the moon and taking on SWIFT, there’s also a case – maybe even a stronger one – of Ripple’s RippleNet messaging service doing the same. Yes, the same Ripple that’s being sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse recently reported on Twitter that the network is about to eclipse the $10 billion mark in volume and continues to grow.
The important thing is that the underlying currencies used on the RippleNet are liquid. China’s yuan is not. For CIPS to challenge the world, there needs to be a freely convertible currency behind it.
Bitcoin Bounce Stalls, Resistance Between $44K and $46K
Bitcoin has rallied 13% over the past week as bearish sentiment waned. The cryptocurrency, however, faces immediate resistance at $44,000 to $46,000, which could stall the price recovery over the short term.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart is overbought, similar to what occurred in early February, which preceded a pullback in price. This time, however, there has been a significant loss of downside momentum, which means buyers could remain active at lower support.
For now, bitcoin is stuck in a range of between $37,000 and $46,000, pointing to a potential reversal of a three-month-long downtrend. That means buying volume will need to increase on pullbacks in order to cause a shift in trends.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia gross domestic product (Q4/MoM/YoY)
3:45 p.m. HKT/SGT (7:45 a.m. UTC): France budget
5 p.m. HKT/SGT (9 a.m. UTC): U.S. Opec meeting
10:30 p.m. HKT/SGT (2:30 p.m. UTC): Speech by James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
How Is Ukraine Using Crypto To Fight Russia? Ukrainian Government Receives Crypto Donations Worth $16.8M
""First Mover"" went to Ukraine for on-the-ground interviews as the war with Russia intensified. Guests included Michael Chobanian, founder of Ukrainian crypto exchange Kuna, Ukrainian lawyer Artem Afian, who has close ties to Ukraine government officials, and Tanvi Ratna of Policy 4.0. Also, CoinDesk Managing Editor for Global Policy and Regulation Nik De discussed U.S. sanctions and Starlink terminals arriving in Ukraine.
'Absolutely Surreal': Inside a Fund Raising Millions in Crypto for Besieged Ukraine: The Unchain fund has raised $1.8 million and plans to launch a DAO this week, even as team members live with sirens, explosions and artillery barrage following the Russian invasion.
Bitcoin HODLers Unfazed by Macro and Geopolitical Risks: These three charts show investors are holding onto their cryptocurrency for future profits rather than selling.
Ukraine's Defense Ministry Decides Where Crypto Funds Are Spent: The government's crypto fund has received donations worth $16.8 million.
Ukraine Asks Binance, Coinbase, 6 Other Crypto Exchanges to Block Russian Users: Earlier today, U.S. authorities added regulations aimed at thwarting the use of digital currencies and assets to evade sanctions.
Electric Capital Raises $1B for 2 New Crypto VC Funds: Long-term investing and public goods will be a focus for the two new funds from what had been a smaller player in the world of crypto VC.
NFTs Are the Latest Crypto Tax Events Nobody Understands: Casual collectors may be in for a rude awakening this year. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Tax Week.
Today's crypto explainer: 5 Essential Questions About Crypto Taxes
Other voices: National Security Implications of Virtual Currency (Rand Corporation)
""Harder than it might sound for Russia to use #crypto in skirting sanctions🏦 - Liquidity = big issue 💸(h/t @ashgoblue ) - Global exchanges on high alert for sanctioned accts, subject to KYC/ AML rules 👀- Transactions are traceable."" (CNBC correspondent Kate Rooney) ... ""On the train to from Lviv to Krakow, a violinist plays for the packed train car during a journey that took ~28 hours, said Sofia Kedruk, who arrived in Krakow Monday and shot this video while on the train. #ukraine."" (Katelyn Ferral, USA reporter covering the Russian invasion) ... ""Fake news is often less about getting people wholeheartedly to believe a false narrative, than simply sowing distrust of credible facts and institutions. It’s a messy business, and one that needs serious investigation."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn)"
27,809,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/02/the-peoples-network-is-growing-fast-but-would-be-miners-are-getting-left-behind/,"'The People's Network' Is Growing Fast, but Would-Be Miners Are Getting Left Behind",A new lawsuit filed against a California-based distributor of Helium crypto mining rigs offers a glimpse into the supply chain and customer service nightmare plaguing the rapidly expanding protocol.,2022-03-02,"The Helium Network – a decentralized telecommunications network powered by crypto – is growing fast, but not everyone has been able to participate in the financial upside.
According to a new class-action lawsuit filed against Parley Labs, a San Diego-based distributor of Helium mining “hotspots,” thousands of would-be miners have faced extensive shipping delays that have left them empty-handed for nearly a year, unable to mine Helium’s native token HNT – and, for many of them, unable to even receive a refund for their orders.
A Helium hotspot is a small device that plugs into a regular electric outlet, taps into existing internet service and extends that Wi-Fi for miles – providing a connection to local devices and acting as a node on the network. Hotspot owners are rewarded in HNT tokens for operating the hotspots.
The ongoing global semiconductor shortage is at least partially to blame for the delays. The impact of the chip shortage has been felt across the electronics industry and has impacted all types of crypto miners – including Helium miners.
Helium boomed in 2021, growing from approximately 14,000 hotspots globally last January to over half a million at the start of 2022. And the growth hasn’t slowed – nearly 80,000 hotspots have come online in the past 30 days, and the network now has over 600,000 hotspots around the world.
Helium is also growing financially. Earlier this month, the company behind the protocol closed a $200 million funding round at $1.2 billion valuation. Helium is backed by major players in the crypto venture capital space, including Andreessen Horowitz, FTX Ventures and Multicoin Capital, and boasts a series of partnerships and integrations with mainstream entities including Dish Network, Lime scooters and the city of San Jose, California.
Though the growing number of hotspots might seem impressive, they represent a small fraction of the Helium miners that have been ordered. According to a representative for Helium, 3.5 million hotspots remain on back-order. And, as the price of the token climbs – nearly 450% in the last year – the people at the other end of those orders are growing increasingly frustrated by what they see as a lost opportunity to get in early.
Different reasons have been offered up to explain the missing hotspots. Representatives for both Helium and Nebra, a U.K.-based manufacturer of hotspots whose equipment is at the center of the lawsuit, both blame the ongoing chip shortage and pandemic-related supply chain issues. Parley Labs, the hotspot distributor at the center of the lawsuit, did not respond to multiple requests for comment, but alluded to issues with its payment processor for the delays in both shipping and issuing refunds during an interview with a crypto YouTuber last month.
In both the lawsuit and on social media, Parley Labs’ customers say they’ve hounded the company for refunds, only to be met with either total silence or stalling techniques. Company representatives told customers they needed to set up a phone call before they could issue a refund but then did not call at the scheduled time, said they had processed refunds that never actually arrived and promised new shipping dates that were never met.
The civil suit accuses Parley Labs and its owner, Bryan Bui-Tuong, of fraud, breach of contract and unjust enrichment.
According to the lawsuit, on Dec. 16, 2021, Parley told its customers that it would issue unilateral refunds due to “uncertainty regarding Nebra’s ability to deliver [hotspots]” and that the process would take up to eight weeks. Plaintiffs in the suit told CoinDesk that they did not receive refunds by the promised deadline – only once they had filed the lawsuit were they approached by Parley about refunds.
Other customers not involved in the suit told CoinDesk that the only way they had been able to get their money back was by disputing the payment with their credit card companies.
“I bought an indoor and outdoor Nebra [hotspot] from Parley and then they just kept pushing back the ship date,” said Bryant Peng, a customer of Parley Labs not involved in the suit.
“Eventually I got sick of it and tried to get a refund, but they refused to help me. I went to my credit card company, and they were able to reverse the charge based on how shady Parley was being,” Peng added.
According to Gerry Grunsfeld, the lead attorney for the plaintiffs, the credit card chargeback option was not an option for his clients because most of them were past the six-month time limit for chargebacks by the time they realized they were being “strung along by Parley.”
More importantly, said Grunsfeld, his clients won’t be satisfied with a simple refund. They feel that they’ve missed out on months of mining opportunity, the chance to get in early or even to flip their hotspots online at a profit.
Upon receiving a refund for his order of two hotspots on Feb. 17 – which was only obtained after the lawsuit was filed, and came a full week after Parley’s promised deadline for blanket refunds for all orders of Nebra-made hotspots – plaintiff Bailey Rosmarin wrote Parley:
“At this juncture, the refund does not make me whole, and I will be proceeding in the lawsuit I have filed against Parley.”
Though customers of Parley Labs have been the most vocal in voicing their disappointment, Parley is not the only distributor or manufacturer of Helium miners facing issues.
Twitter users have complained about extensive delays from other distributors of Nebra-made hotspots, including European electronics distributor Distrelec, as well as delays for hotspots ordered directly from Nebra (though a representative for Nebra told CoinDesk customers have always been kept apprised of shipping delays and refunds are available to anyone who wants one).
Even the biggest manufacturers of Helium hotspots, including China-based Bobcat, have faced lengthy delays – though, according to the lawsuit, Bobcat has fulfilled 99% of hotspot orders placed in April 2021, when the majority of the 14 plaintiffs in the suit placed their first orders with Parley Labs.
In a statement to CoinDesk, a representative for Nebra said that the company’s manufacturing ability has been “severely limited by sudden constraints on component availability” due to the global semiconductor shortage. Despite this, Nebra said it has shipped more than 50,000 miners globally. Over 32,000 Nebra-made hotspots were online at the time of publication.
Brad Lane, a volunteer member of Helium’s Manufacturing Oversight Committee (MOC), confirmed that hotspot manufacturers like Nebra have faced severe shortages.
Lane told CoinDesk that many manufacturers found themselves overwhelmed with demand that exploded from hundreds of hotspots per batch to hundreds of thousands in less than a year – while also battling chip shortages.
“It was kind of the perfect storm,” Lane said. “And the reality is when you’re in a new product field like the hotspots, a lot of the manufacturers are smaller themselves, and they just don’t have as mature supply chain processes in place. They don’t have direct orders with the manufacturers in place. It just became a real challenge.”
Lane also said that the available semiconductors were often snapped up by bigger electronics manufacturers, leaving smaller operations to fight for what was left over or, if they were lucky, reallocate inventory they already had for other products.
“There’s a pecking order in all industries, and this industry is no different,” Lane said.
Wannabe miners aren’t the only ones negatively impacted by the hotspot shortages: the Helium network, which relies on the continued spread of hotspots to extend its Wi-Fi availability, has also suffered.
“We acknowledge that hotspot miner shortages have slowed the growth of the Helium Network overall and we share the frustration that this has brought to the Helium community,” a representative for Helium told CoinDesk.
Lane, however, believes that there’s a light at the end of the chip shortage tunnel.
“There are still challenges in 2022, but I think people are optimistic that the semiconductor industry is going to start catching up, and we’re going to see better availability [of chips] throughout the year,” he said.
But even if manufacturers are able to catch up with the demand, many of the would-be miners burned by the delays have given up on the idea of mining HNT.
“The whole experience left a bad taste,” Peng told CoinDesk. “So I gave up on mining.”"
28,1177,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/02/crypto-miner-hut-8-teams-up-with-enthusiast-gaming-for-multi-year-partnership/,Crypto Miner Hut 8 Teams Up With Enthusiast Gaming for Multi-Year Partnership,The deal will enable Hut 8 to reach Enthusiast Gaming’s 300 million-strong audience and provide data center hosting.,2022-03-02,"Canadian crypto miner Hut 8 signed a multi-year strategic partnership with gaming entertainment company Enthusiastic Gaming to collaborate on new experiences and content, and data center hosting.
“As ambitious leaders at the intersection of gaming and digital asset mining, Enthusiast Gaming and Hut 8 will collaborate on new experiences and content within mobile and blockchain gaming, Web 3, [non-fungible tokens], and cryptocurrency,” according to a statement. Hut 8 will also provide “critical infrastructure support” by hosting Enthusiast Gaming in its data centers.
The new partnership will allow Hut 8’s content to be integrated across Enthusiast Gaming’s flywheel of communities, games, and experiences. “In the near term, we anticipate the benefits to Hut 8 will include connecting with an expanded crypto-savvy audience and potential new customers, while generating incremental revenue by hosting Enthusiast Gaming on our infrastructure,” Hut 8 CEO Jaime Leverton told CoinDesk in an email.
The gaming sector is rapidly changing as the number of video gamers globally is quickly approaching 3 billion with a projected 5%-7% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) over the next few years, according to research by Messari. The gaming sector generated $175 billion in revenue last year and is expected to reach $269 billion by 2025, the report said.
Moreover, blockchain gaming has seen a rapid user adoption, while investors continue to pour money into the sector. In January alone, $1 billion was invested in blockchain games, on top of $4 billion already raised in 2021, according to the data tracker DappRadar.
“We’re excited to host Enthusiast Gaming in our data centers and collaborate on new experiences and content that will connect us to their audience of 300 million Gen Z and millennial viewers, the majority of whom are crypto-savvy,” said Jaime Leverton, CEO of Hut 8.
To kick off the deal, Hut 8 will be featured as a presenting sponsor for a significant upcoming update to its first-person shooter game EV.IO. The miner will also become a sponsor of Enthusiast’s Luminosity Gaming, the top esports organization on Twitch with a social following of more than 145 million globally.
Read more: FTX Strikes 7-Year Deal With 'League of Legends' Riot Games
The deal comes as some miners are diversifying into non-mining business ventures such as blockchain gaming, NFTs and Web 3 projects. Most recently, another crypto miner, Argo Blockchain, launched an internally funded, in-house non-mining business unit to diversify its business and take advantage of other opportunities in the blockchain ecosystem."
29,1180,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/03/07/why-stablecoin-interest-rates-are-so-damn-high/,Why Stablecoin Interest Rates Are So Damn High,"Or, why Jeremy Allaire can't stop printing.",2022-03-07,"Why are interest rates on dollar-pegged stablecoins so much higher than interest rates on actual dollars? You’d think that a stablecoin worth a dollar would command the same interest rate as a dollar, namely zero. But a quick search of lending rates on stablecoins reveals rates of anything from 9% to 13%, or even more.
The easy explanation is that high interest rates compensate people for the risk that the stablecoin will fall off its peg. But prime stablecoins like USDC and Pax (USDP) are fully backed by high-quality dollar assets, so the risk that people will lose their money is small. No, there is another reason – and it highlights a fundamental conflict in the purposes for which stablecoins are used.
Frances Coppola, a CoinDesk columnist, is a freelance writer and speaker on banking, finance and economics. Her book “The Case for People’s Quantitative Easing,” explains how modern money creation and quantitative easing work, and advocates “helicopter money” to help economies out of recession.
We know why interest rates on actual dollars are so low. The Federal Reserve has cut interest rates to zero, so banks have no reason to pay interest on deposits. And the Fed has issued trillions of new dollars, so there are far more cash dollars circulating in conventional markets than anyone has a use for. No one wants dollars so they don’t command any interest.
But the reverse is true for stablecoins. Demand for stablecoins constantly exceeds supply. So people with stablecoins to lend can charge premium interest rates, and crypto platforms desperate for stablecoins offer high interest rates to attract new stablecoin lenders. That’s why stablecoin interest rates are so high. It’s simple economics.
You’d think stablecoin issuers would issue enough coins to satisfy demand. There are, after all, no limits on stablecoin issuance. Stablecoins can be created from thin air at the press of a button. They are the crypto world’s equivalent of quantitative easing (QE), only without the asset purchases. And, indeed, stablecoin issuers have been minting new coins at an extraordinary rate. But Jeremy Allaire printing billions of USDC doesn’t bring down interest rates. The market simply swallows everything he prints and comes back for more. Where is all this demand coming from?
Read more: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
The most obvious place is exchanges. Stablecoins make great liquidity for crypto exchanges. They enable people to trade in and out of cryptocurrencies easily and quickly without risking losses on the bridging asset. As crypto trading increases, so, too, does demand for stablecoins. A growing exchange such as FTX needs ever-larger quantities of stablecoin liquidity to maintain trading activity. Without these infusions, it would either have to restrict trading in and out of stablecoins or allow stablecoins to fall off their dollar pegs at times of high demand.
Stablecoins also provide crypto investors with a “safe haven” when cryptocurrency price volatility is high. So when cryptocurrencies go on a wild roller-coaster ride, as they have in recent months, demand for stablecoins rises. This tends to push them off their pegs, which rather destroys their purpose. So when people are cashing out of risky crypto into nice, safe stablecoins and USDC is starting to look expensive, Jeremy Allaire cranks up the printing presses.
But although printing more stablecoins keeps them on their pegs when demand is high, it doesn’t bring down interest rates on stablecoin lending. In this respect, stablecoin issuers are not like central banks. Central banks aim to control interest rates. Stablecoin issuers only control exchange rates. When you print money to hold an exchange rate peg, interest rates rise. Jeremy’s printing therefore contributes to the high interest rates on stablecoins.
But it’s not the only reason. There’s an insatiable demand for stablecoins – and it doesn’t come from exchanges. It comes from decentralized finance.
Dollar-pegged stablecoins are used as prime collateral in DeFi lending and staking pools. As more and more people dip their toes into DeFi and more and more new platforms appear, demand for stablecoins as collateral is rising exponentially. In December, research by The Block revealed that stablecoin issuance had risen by 388% in a year, mainly driven by demand from DeFi. If this trend continues, demand for stablecoins as collateral may outstrip use of stablecoins as safe assets on exchanges.
Collateral is by definition illiquid. When you borrow against an asset, that asset becomes “encumbered.” You can’t sell it and you can’t lend it out without your lender’s permission because the lender wants to be able to seize that asset if you default on your loan. So if you pledge USDC in return for DAI stablecoins, you are locking up your stablecoins in MakerDAO’s vaults. They are no longer in circulation. And the same happens if you pledge stablecoins in return for governance tokens on DeFi platforms.
All over the crypto world, there are vaults full of stablecoins. As demand from DeFi grows, more and more stablecoins are being locked up in vaults almost as soon as they are issued. That giant sucking sound you can hear is DeFi draining liquidity to support its massive derivatives pyramid. No wonder Jeremy has to keep printing. If he didn’t, the system would gradually freeze as liquidity becomes scarcer and scarcer and stablecoins less and less like actual dollars.
It is possible to make collateral liquid – if you don’t mind putting other people’s assets at risk. The conventional financial system, which had a similar liquidity-draining derivatives pyramid in the mid-2000s, invented what it thought was a sure-fire way of preventing collateral illiquidity from collapsing the pyramid. It’s called rehypothecation. Instead of locking up pledged assets in vaults, lenders lent them out, over and over again. The double spiral of cash lending and collateral rehypothecation enabled the derivatives pyramid to grow to a dizzying size. But it wasn’t sustainable. It collapsed disastrously in 2008.
Read more: What Is a Stablecoin?
Now those long rehypothecation chains have been regulated away, conventional markets have become reliant on infusions of liquidity from central banks. The Fed has even invented a liquidity pump: It lends dollars to banks in return for pledged securities (the “standing repo facility,” or SRF), and lends securities to non-banks in return for dollars (“overnight reverse repos”, or ON RRP). The idea is to keep control of interest rates. No way is the Fed going to let them fall through the floor or rise to the heights that stablecoin interest rates are reaching.
The crypto world rejects both central bank interference in markets and the regulation that makes it necessary. Unsurprisingly, therefore, crypto lenders are finding ways of making collateral liquid. And whether knowingly or unknowingly, they are reaching for the same tools. Rehypothecation is back. Lending platforms like Celsius use rehypothecation to generate high returns for its depositors: Celsius has been accused of “endlessly rehypothecating” pledged assets, though it denies that it does this.
But at present, rehypothecation in DeFi is small beer. Constant infusions of new stablecoins are the only significant relief for the terrible illiquidity that comes from feeding crypto’s main medium of exchange to the ever-thirsty derivatives monster. And that is why Jeremy Allaire can’t stop printing."
30,1181,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/09/miami-nightclub-e11even-rolls-out-crypto-division-and-captains-club-nfts/,Miami Nightclub E11EVEN Rolls Out Crypto Division and 'Captain's Club' NFTs,"The downtown Miami club is dancing deeper into crypto, partnering with Horizen Labs for the backend.",2022-03-09,"Miami super club E11EVEN is doubling down on its Web 3 push with a new crypto-dedicated division of its brand called “E11EVEN Crypto,” created in partnership with blockchain firm Horizen Labs, .
The company announced Wednesday the new division’s first product is a soon-to-be-released non-fungible token (NFT) collection titled “11 Captain's Club” dropping in early April, with artwork inspired by the club’s iconic hat designs and a hefty 1 ETH (around $2,700) mint price.
Since its inception in 2014, the downtown nightclub has prided itself on innovative revenue streams, having created its own apparel company, vodka brand and even a real estate arm that’s partnered with crypto exchange FTX to complement the club’s operations.
Now the company is eyeing NFTs as its next opportunistic frontier, at a time when Miami has begun to embrace digital currencies in a bid to be the U.S. hotbed for crypto innovation and culture.
Read more: Miami’s Multiple Money Visions
CEO Michael Simkins first envisioned the crossover years ago, reaffirmed by its potential after E11EVEN began accepting cryptocurrency as a payment method in April 2021.
“We were the first major club to accept crypto as payment, and now we’ve processed over $5 million of it at the nightclub,” Simkins told CoinDesk in an interview. “We’ve always been a preferred entertainment establishment for people in the crypto community, both VCs, founders and investors. So we’ve been in the ecosystem by doing all these things, even before being a direct participant.”
(The publicly traded owner of the Miami area’s Tootsie’s Cabaret and Scarlett’s Cabaret recently followed suit in accepting bitcoin payments.)
E11EVEN’s first foray into digital collectibles came in December, when the club purchased Bored Ape #11 as its first NFT for 99 ETH (roughly $272,000).
While Simkins couldn’t confirm any Bored Ape events being hosted at the club in the near future, he did hint at an in-person get-together for holders of Captain Club NFTs around the time of the upcoming Bitcoin 2022 conference in April.
“We want to listen to the community to hear what utility they want us to offer, especially real-life utility,” Simkins said. “There will be real-life utility and it will be driven by the owners.”
New York-based Horizen Labs, tapped by the club for the project’s backend, raised $7 million in August in a funding round led by Kenetic Capital."
31,1188,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/15/team-bringing-diem-blockchain-to-life-confirms-200m-raise-says-coinbase-and-more-are-building-on-devnet/,"Team Bringing Diem Blockchain to Life Confirms $200M Raise, Says Coinbase and More Are Building on Devnet",Aptos announced the funding round Tuesday and said major crypto brands were already contributing code.,2022-03-15,"Aptos, a team helmed by former Facebook coders, announced a $200 million funding round Tuesday, confirming an earlier CoinDesk scoop.
The round was led by Andreessen Horowitz (a16z) with Multicoin Capital, 3 Arrows Capital, Tiger Global, FTX Ventures, Coinbase Ventures and more also signing checks.
Aptos is among a handful of teams looking to bring the Diem (formerly Libra) blockchain to life outside of the watchful eye of Meta (formerly Facebook). 0L is another project similarly looking to revive Diem, in part through its Carpe app.
In a second Aptos blog post on Tuesday, the team sketched out some of its blockchain’s tech specs.
Notably, Aptos said its devnet, meant for coders to contribute open-source code, is now live – with developers at big-name crypto firms offering their time.
“There are great companies like Anchorage, Binance, Blockorus, Coinbase [COIN], Livepeer, Moonclave, Paxos, Paymagic, Rarible and Streaming Fast in our community already giving feedback, and contributing code on Devnet,” Aptos wrote.
“We have worked with the Aptos founders over the last few years to bring to life the decentralized vision we both share,” Joe Lallouz, head of product at Coinbase Cloud told CoinDesk in an email. “We are incredibly excited to support them and their team with solutions and infrastructure to bring more participants and builders to the ecosystem.” (Coinbase was a member of the Diem Association from its launch in mid-2019.)
In its blog post, Aptos ID’d “next-gen social media platforms, rich [non-fungible token] experiences, Web 3 games, creator-first media and entertainment businesses, cheap and secure payments, [decentralized finance]-integrated fintech products, and so much more,” as potential applications to live on Aptos.
Read more: Ex-Meta Coders Raising $200M to Bring Diem Blockchain to Life: Sources
UPDATE (March 15, 16:00 UTC): Adds Coinbase comment."
32,1187,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/16/luno-spins-out-investment-arm-to-pump-15m-to-75m-a-year-into-crypto-companies/,Luno Spins Out Investment Arm to Pump $15M to $75M a Year Into Crypto Companies,Luno Expeditions will focus on seed and pre-seed investing with the aim of making 200-300 such investments per year.,2022-03-16,"Cryptocurrency exchange Luno has launched an investment arm through which it plans to invest between $15 million to $75 million a year into crypto and fintech companies.
Luno's parent company, Digital Currency Group, is also the parent of CoinDesk.
Luno Expeditions will focus on early-stage investing (seed and pre-seed) with the aim of making 200-300 such investments per year.
The division will spearhead all the early-stage investments of Digital Currency Group.
""Practically speaking, we expect to invest a range of $15 million to $75 million per year,"" Luno Expeditions CEO Jocelyn Cheng told CoinDesk.
Luno plans to invest $50,000 to $250,000 per company with flexibility for this figure to grow, she added.
Luno, which is based in London and is one of Africa's largest crypto exchanges, is funding this venture from its own balance sheet rather than via a fund structure, which Cheng explained provides greater flexibility.
""The reason we didn’t go with a fund structure is because we don’t need any external funding to be able to build this business, both from a capital and management fee perspective,"" said Cheng. ""It also allows us to finance investments with evergreen capital, which we believe is more valuable to founders building companies in the fintech space.""
Luno Expeditions has so far made investments in 20 companies, including a crypto compliance tool in Israel and a non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace in the U.S.
Many of the world's major crypto exchanges boast an investment arm as part of their structure in order to generate growth in the broader digital assets ecosystem.
Coinbase Global's (COIN) Coinbase Ventures, for example, made 150 such deals in 2021, with data by Crunchbase putting its total investment for the year at $3.7 billion. And crypto derivatives giant FTX recently set up the $2 billion FTX Ventures Fund to invest in crypto start-ups.
Read more: Kraken Ventures Raises $65M for Early-Stage Crypto Fund"
33,1182,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/16/first-mover-asia-india-crypto-investors-await-taxation-clarity-bitcoin-rises-on-a-day-of-big-price-swings/,First Mover Asia: India Crypto Investors Await Taxation Clarity; Bitcoin Rises on a Day of Big Price Swings,"India's crypto community is hoping to convince lawmakers to scale back a crypto taxation bill; bitcoin soared above $41,000.",2022-03-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin went on a roller-coaster ride but also rose above $41,000.
Insights: India's crypto community awaits a finance bill that will clarify the government's approach to crypto taxation.
Technician's take: BTC pared earlier losses; support at $37K and resistance at $45K.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $41,609 +3.8%
Ether (ETH): $2,754 +6%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin rises on a day of price swings
Bitcoin was well into the green over the past 24 hours, although not before experiencing a roller-coaster ride of steep ascents and dips spurred by news events, including economic fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the widely expected decision by the U.S. central bank to raise interest rates.
The largest cryptocurrency by market cap had soared past the psychologically important threshold of $40,000 early Wednesday morning (UTC time) and then climbed past $41,000 over a roughly 90-minute period. The source of the quick spike remained unclear, although some market observers believe it was tied to China's pledge to support its real estate and tech industries, a move that calmed investors who have been abandoning stocks in droves after a regulatory crackdown and recent slowdown in the country's storied economic growth.
After dropping under $40,000 on two occasions during Asian and U.S. trading hours, bitcoin was changing hands again above $41,000, up about 4%. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading at nearly $2,800, a roughly 6% gain. Most other major altcoins had gained ground over the past 24 hours.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy signed into law a bill that legalizes crypto in the country. Ukraine has been using a flood of digital asset donations to support the country's defense against the Russian invasion. In an impassioned speech delivered virtually, Zelenskyy asked the U.S. Congress to provide more support and to strengthen sanctions against Russia. ""We need such principles of European business that the Russian state does not have the money to ruin lives,"" he said.
The Federal Reserve decided to raise interest rates by 25 basis points and indicated it would increase rates in similar increments six more times in 2022. The Fed has adopted a more hawkish stance to tame rising inflation but without sending the U.S. economy into recession.
Ben Emons, the managing director of global macro strategy at Medley Global Advisors, said crypto markets had largely already priced in the interest rate increase. ""It's a fair point to say that there's been anticipation in the affect of rate hikes,"" Emons told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" hosts, adding: ""As [for] the Fed signal it's ready to do this faster, that's not priced in.""
S&P 500: 4,358 +2.2%
DJIA: 34,063 +1.5%
Nasdaq: 13,436 +3.7%
Gold: $1,946 -0.4%
India awaits crypto taxation clarity
India’s crypto community will likely have to wait till next week to receive clarity on new tax rules.
This after India’s Parliament websites did not mention the introduction of the finance bill that is expected to explain the government's crypto taxation policies. At least one source said the bill is unlikely to be introduced on the last working day of the week, Thursday. The week is shortened as Friday is a holiday celebrating Holi, one of India’s most significant festivals.
The delay gives India’s crypto community more time to mobilize and express themselves to the framers of the bill. Since the announcement of the proposed taxation, crypto supporters have been knocking on the doors of the finance ministry, holding informal and formal conversations urging them to make changes.
The current tax proposal includes a 30% tax on any income generated from crypto transactions and a second tax of 1% at source on all transactions (tax deducted at source, or TDS). Expectations are low that the government will roll back the 30% tax but the industry is hopeful the 1% TDS could be tweaked.
A change.org petition asking for a reduction in the 30% tax and the 1% TDS, among other demands, has already received around 100,000 signatures out of the 150,000 sought.
***
***
China looks to allay investors' fears
China’s top financial policy committee, the Financial Stability Development Committee of the State Council, promised to keep the market stable and support property and tech companies.
Following reports of the meeting in Chinese state media Wednesday, Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng Index, which had its biggest loss since 2018 on Monday, posted double digit gains in Wednesday afternoon trading.
Bitcoin Holds Above $40K; Resistance at $45K
Bitcoin (BTC) pared earlier losses and returned above $40,000 toward the end of the New York trading day. The cryptocurrency experienced wild price swings over the past few days, which typically occurs during times of low trading volume.
For now, support around $37,000-$40,000 remains intact, although resistance toward $45,000 could stall the upswing in price.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart continues to rise from an oversold reading on Jan. 21. Still, price jumps have been capped at resistance over the past two months, indicating persistent selling pressure.
On a positive note, BTC could see additional price gains if the daily RSI remains above 50, which could signal the end of the four-month long downtrend.
South by Southwest (SXSX)
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia fulltime/part-time employment (Feb.)
5:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(9:30 a.m. UTC): Speech by European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Investors Await Fed Interest Rate Decision Today, Crypto Industry on Defensive in Ukraine Crisis, Metta World Peace Launches NFT Collection
The Federal Reserve raised the interest rate by 25 basis points to tame soaring inflation in the U.S. Ben Emons of Medley Global Advisors shared his readings on the pulse of the U.S. economy and global markets. Rebecca Rettig of Aave weighed in on the role of crypto exchanges in the Ukraine crisis amid calls for compliance with Russia sanctions. Plus, former National Basketball Association star Metta Sandiford-Artest (formerly Metta World Peace) discussed celebrity endorsement of non-fungible tokens (NFT).
Binance Middle East Progress Continues With Operating License in Dubai: It’s the second approval this week in that region for the crypto exchange.
HSBC Enters the Metaverse Through Partnership With The Sandbox: The bank wants to engage with sports, e-sports, and gaming fans on the metaverse.
FTX Strengthens Global Presence With AZA Finance Link in Africa: The agreement follows one day after FTX Europe said it received a license to operate a crypto exchange in Dubai.
Hex Trust Raises $88M for Crypto Custody Focused on the Gaming Sector: The funding round was co-led by Animoca Brands and Liberty City Ventures.
Joe Biden’s Crypto Executive Order Is a Symbol: The symbolism of U.S. President Joe Biden signing last week’s directive may have more of an impact than the practical effects.
LimeWire and the Zombie Brands Pivot to Crypto: LimeWire joins MoviePass and RadioShack in the blockchain resurrections club.
Today's crypto explainer: What's the Most Profitable NFT Strategy: Buying at Mint or Later?
Other voices: Surviving Off Crypto When Cash Fails (CNET)
""But Russia is increasingly isolated from global financial markets, and investors are losing hope that they will see their money. As the government strives to protect what’s left of its access to foreign currency, it has suggested it would pay its dollar- or euro-denominated debt obligations in rubles instead. That has prompted credit rating agencies to warn of an imminent default."" (The New York Times) ... ""I don’t want to get political, but it is worth marveling for a moment at the fact that we went from a president who once tweeted he wasn’t a “fan of bitcoin” to one who signed a formal document saying the crypto industry is growing, it must be monitored, guidelines should be put in place and the U.S. should be a leader in responsible innovation within the digital asset sector."" (CoinDesk Managing Editor for Global Policy and Regulation Nikhilesh De) ... ""You need to put pressure. Such sanctions against Russia are needed so that every Russian soldier knows the price of every shot at civilians. We need such principles of European business that the Russian state does not have the money to ruin lives."" (Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy) ... “The economy no longer needs – or wants – these, this very highly accommodative stance.” (U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome H. Powell)"
34,716,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/17/mina-foundation-raises-92m-to-accelerate-adoption-of-zero-knowledge-proofs/,Mina Foundation Raises $92M to Accelerate Adoption of Zero-Knowledge Proofs,The terms of the token sale were not disclosed but FTX Ventures and Three Arrows Capital led the effort.,2022-03-17,"Zero-knowledge proofs took a step forward Thursday with a $92 million token sale to accelerate adoption for the Mina protocol.
The round was led by FTX Ventures and Three Arrows Capital, with the raise representing FTX Venture’s first investment in a zero-knowledge project. Other participants include Alan Howard, Amber Group, Blockchain.com, Brevan Howard, Circle Ventures, Finality Capital Partners and Pantera.
“The main opportunity here is to be able to program with zero knowledge for regular developers,” Mina Foundation CEO Evan Shapiro said in an interview with CoinDesk.
He added: “Historically, this hasn't been possible. You had to be a cryptographer that also happened to be super good at the kinds of programming you need to work with zero-knowledge proofs. What makes this exciting is any developer who knows JavaScript can now work with ZK proofs.”
Shapiro declined to share the price at which the tokens were sold or the percentage of the Mina Foundation treasury the round represents.
According to Shapiro, the network soft-launched in December 2021, and the team has been slowly raising production ever since.
“The main function of the raise is to increase our capacity to give out grants to proposals that can help support the protocol,” he said.
So far, “1,100 or so” grantees have received funds, and the team saw over 100 applications for its “ZK Bootcamp” application development program, of which the foundation selected a dozen to nurture.
An identity solution, multiple games and a “highly scalable layer 2” system count among the first cohort, and Shapiro said he expects to see many of them reach production within the next six months.
Other promising zero-knowledge applications include “a [decentralized finance] app that has a form of identity of private [know your customer],” private decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) transactions and memberships, and private non-fungible token (NFT) ownership – all of which are frequently requested features among users and developers.
“This is a special moment where zero-knowledge proofs are becoming something that people can generally use, and not just select developers. That’s an exciting thing for Mina and for the space,” Shapiro said."
35,666,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/03/18/what-is-apecoin-and-who-is-behind-it/,What Is ApeCoin and Who Is Behind It?,"A carefully coordinated marketing campaign takes great pains to distance the new token from Yuga Labs, but the firm that created the Bored Ape NFTs appears to be deeply involved.",2022-03-18,"Earlier this week, it was announced that members of the Bored Ape Yacht Club NFT collection would be getting their very own cryptocurrency, ApeCoin.
The passive voice there is intentional. ApeCoin is explicitly linked to these famously pricey non-fungible tokens, and is very much involved with Yuga Labs, the company stewarding the intellectual property behind the Bored Apes. But a carefully coordinated marketing campaign has taken great pains to dissociate ApeCoin from any one conventional corporation.
Read More: Bored Ape Yacht Club’s ApeCoin Surges 90% on Second Day of Trading
Instead, the public relations messaging insists ApeCoin is a product of ApeCoin DAO, a brand new organizational unit governed entirely by token holders. Holding APE makes you a member of the DAO (that’s short for decentralized autonomous organization, a kind of online collective centered around crypto); you don’t even need to own a Bored Ape NFT to join.
ApeCoin’s official website bills the token as “a decentralized protocol layer for community-led initiatives that drive culture forward into the metaverse.”
Let’s decode some of that gibberish, shall we?
ApeCoin is an ERC-20 token, a particular flavor of build-it-yourself cryptocurrency on the Ethereum blockchain. Most of the Ethereum-based social tokens that have taken off over the past year (think FWB, for the social club Friends with Benefits, and WRITE, for the Web 3 crowdfunding platform Mirror) are built using this framework.
Unlike NFTs, they’re meant to be “fungible” – as with bitcoin (BTC), any one ApeCoin should be worth exactly as much as any other ApeCoin, and you can buy and sell them freely on what is known as a decentralized exchange, a kind of digital trading post for cryptocurrencies.
Almost every major centralized crypto exchange listed the token immediately after launch. This was an accomplishment in and of itself, given the notoriously finicky nature of major players like Coinbase (COIN). After just one day of trading, ApeCoin had a market capitalization of almost $2 billion; one APE is currently worth about $14 and the total supply of tokens is capped at one billion (not all of which is currently in circulation).
According to the ApeCoin website and accompanying press materials, ApeCoin is being launched by ApeCoin DAO, a new governing body in which all APE holders are members. It’s meant to field proposals from the community, which token holders can then vote on.
Other NFT projects have attempted similar voting structures. Purchasing an NFT from a collection called “Nouns” makes you a member of Nouns DAO, an online investment collective that has amassed a treasury of $62 million. On a dedicated page for proposals, Nouns owners can decide as a group what they’d like to do with that money. (A typical proposal: “What if we made an NFT comic book?”)
There’s also a separate organization called the Ape Foundation, which will handle day-to-day DAO administration, proposal management and “other tasks that ensure the DAO community’s ideas have the support they need to become a reality.” It’s the legal backing for ApeCoin DAO.
An Ape Foundation subcommittee will also serve as ApeCoin DAO’s “board,” which will oversee certain proposals. The initial board consists of five high-profile crypto investors: Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian; Amy Wu, who leads the crypto exchange FTX’s venture arm; Maaria Bajwa, of Sound Ventures; Animoca Brands’ Yat Siu; and Dean Steinbeck of Horizen Labs. Each board member gets a six-month term, and the ApeCoin website promises DAO members will be able to vote on future members.
Floating somewhere in the middle of all this is a Cayman Islands-based consulting company called Cartan Group, which is being paid $150,000 per month for a six-month contract; all five of the DAO’s active AIPs, or “Ape Improvement Proposals,” were posted by Brian Tang, the company’s co-founder.
So, in addition to the ApeCoin protocol (the code behind ApeCoin tokens), there’s the ApeCoin DAO, the Ape Foundation and the ApeCoin DAO board.
But ApeCoin wasn’t developed by the community of Bored Ape investors. There’s a black hole at the center of this ape galaxy. Who actually put this thing together?
The main company behind the Bored Ape Yacht Club is Yuga Labs, a traditional corporate entity registered in Delaware. It’s reportedly in talks with the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz about funding that would value it at $5 billion, and it has recently made moves to become, effectively, the first major NFT monopoly.
Read More: The First NFT Monopoly
Yuga Labs is also responsible for all the major projects and acquisitions surrounding the Bored Ape Yacht Club. If you want to do anything with Bored Ape IP, you’ll have to go through Yuga Labs.
In a statement, Yuga Labs CEO Nicole Muniz said that “Yuga Labs will continue to be builders of products and experiences that bring new ideas and energy to the community.” Yuga Labs has gifted a special one-of-one NFT to the ApeCoin DAO treasury, and plans to “adopt ApeCoin as the primary token for all new products and services,” which ties its value to the health of the Bored Ape collection as a whole.
Even still, Yuga Labs has insisted it’s not responsible for ApeCoin.
A press release, courtesy of a company called Strange Brew Strategies, warns journalists that “it’s probably tempting to write that ApeCoin is from the Bored Ape Yacht Club to simplify things, but it’s not accurate.”
The distribution model for ApeCoin further complicates that question of agency.
Sixty-two percent of the total ApeCoins are being set aside for token holders and the DAO treasury. For the first 90 days of ApeCoin’s existence, anyone who holds some combination of NFTs from the Bored Ape Yacht Club and its two spin-off collections, the Mutant Ape Yacht Club and the Bored Ape Kennel Club, can claim a certain amount of APE from ApeCoin’s website.
Because APE has a discrete value and is already trading on major exchanges, claiming these coins is a little like claiming free money. For each Bored Ape you own, you’re entitled to 10,094 APE. That’s around $150,000 at today’s prices – about half of what you’d need to buy yourself another Bored Ape.
So far, around 110 million APE tokens have been claimed by NFT holders (here’s a convenient dashboard for tracking APE tokenomics, courtesy of a Dune Analytics wizard called Hildobby).
The other 38% of ApeCoin is set aside for “initial contributors,” and also the Jane Goodall Legacy Foundation, which supports conservation efforts for (real-life) jungle primates.
Yuga Labs is getting 150 million APE, 10 million of which (“or equal value”) will go to the Jane Goodall Legacy Foundation. Next, 140 million APE goes to “the companies and people that helped make this project a reality” – an as yet unnamed group that most likely includes members of the Yuga Labs team. And 80 million APE goes to the founders of Yuga Labs. All these coins are “locked” for the first 12 months, so holders can’t just cash out and tank the price.
The “free money” token claim concept for NFTs isn’t a new one. Back in September, a developer launched a cryptocurrency called “Adventure Gold” (AGLD) as a companion to an ascendant NFT collection called Loot. Anyone with a Loot NFT was automatically entitled to a certain amount of AGLD, and claiming those tokens meant coming into tens of thousands of dollars without any extra effort. In this sense, an NFT can function as a license to print money.
Again, Yuga Labs claims zero responsibility for ApeCoin – it’s just taking a significant chunk of the profits.
It hinges on the idea that ApeCoin DAO is entirely independent from Yuga Labs. If Yuga Labs issued a token explicitly as a reward for Bored Ape holders, you could more easily make the argument that a Bored Ape is a kind of investment, and therefore subject to securities regulations. In the way that certain stocks pay dividends, part of the value of investment-style NFTs would be tied to the perks they could get you down the line.
With ApeCoin ostensibly coming just from ApeCoin DAO and not from Yuga Labs, there’s a veneer of plausible deniability – an independent entity allocating tokens to a company and its founders, rather than that company and its founders pumping their own investments.
Of course, traditional companies do this all the time, via initial public offerings of stock. The difference is the ApeCoin offering is essentially unregulated because, in the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission still doesn’t oversee NFTs.
At least for now.
According to Rohan Grey, a law professor at Willamette University and crypto regulation observer, the distinction between ApeCoin DAO and Yuga Labs probably also has to do with something called the Hinman Test. It’s named for former SEC official William Hinman, who now works at Andreessen Horowitz; Hinman’s idea was that if a governing body is ""sufficiently decentralized,"" it’s free to issue a token without having to register it as a security. ApeCoin DAO is (at least nominally) decentralized; Yuga Labs is not.
“It's the next iteration of the crypto world’s attempts to get around securities regulation,” he said. “First of all it was coins, and then in 2017 with the [SEC’s] ICO report they couldn't do that, so they switched to stablecoins, and then there was a clamp-down on that, so they switched to NFTs.”
In Grey’s opinion, ApeCoin amounts to an attempt by the crypto industry “to almost relitigate 2017 – they were kicked out of the bar wearing a fake mustache, now they've come back with a fake nose in a week.”
Right now, ApeCoin mostly exists for speculation and “governance” for the DAO. But Yuga Labs has grand ambitions for the token.
A mobile game called Benji Bananas, developed by Animoca Brands (whose co-founder, Yat Siu, is on the board of the Ape Foundation), is adopting ApeCoin as a kind of in-game currency. For 25 ApeCoins, you can buy a Benji Bananas Membership Pass, which lets you earn “special tokens” in-game. Those tokens can then be swapped for ApeCoins.
Presumably, this is only the beginning of a whole ecosystem powered by ApeCoin: Yuga Labs plans to use APE as its de facto currency for all new projects. That’s part of the legal element, too – the more you can do with the token, beyond speculation, the better your shot at evading the SEC.
If the price holds, and traders outside the Bored Ape Yacht Club ecosystem start taking positions in APE, you can expect the use cases to, uh, evolve.
ApeCoin rebounded to over $15 after lows of $6.48 on its first day of trading.
The startup is seeking a valuation of as much as $5 billion in the proposed funding round.
In the world of digital art, one of the few constants is the “fear of missing out” on the next major project. But is there a right time to buy an NFT to increase your chance of making a profit?"
36,1184,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/18/popular-bitcoin-strategy-loses-shine-as-us-inflation-nears-8/,Popular Bitcoin Strategy Loses Shine as US Inflation Nears 8%,"Still, crypto real yields remain relatively attractive compared with traditional markets and could continue to draw investors, some observers said.",2022-03-18,"The bitcoin cash-and-carry strategy, the crypto market's equivalent of the so called risk-free bet and one of the most sought-after trades, has lost its shine in the wake of rising inflation.
The market-neutral trade, which involves buying an asset in the spot market while selling futures contracts to pocket the spread between the two prices, now offers a negative real yield, or inflation-adjusted return. That's down significantly from a level of more than 10% a year ago.
At press time, three-month futures traded at an annualized premium of roughly 3% on major exchanges, including the regulated Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) and Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange by volume and open interest, according to data provided by Skew.
That means a trader buying bitcoin (BTC) in the spot market and selling futures contracts would lock in a 3% annualized return in nominal terms. With the U.S. consumer price index (CPI) at 7.9%, that corresponds to a net yield of -4.9% in real terms.
""Yields are very low at the moment, both in inflation-adjusted terms and nominal terms,"" said Vetle Lunde, a market research analyst at Arcane Research. ""The contracted yields are natural, following the extremely potent and unsustainable yields from last year.""
""Cash and carry was likely a major source of demand in the spot market, especially last spring, with the market reaching a 50% annualized basis in April,"" Lunde said.
The cash-and-carry arbitrage was quite popular among institutions and sophisticated participants last year and put upward pressure on spot market prices.
With futures trading at a 25% or more premium on the CME and offshore exchanges and CPI at 4% last April, many institutions locked in double-digit inflation-beating returns using the strategy. Even though futures premiums dropped in the second half, with Binance and FTX cutting leverage, carry traders still pocketed at least 5% real return in late October and early November. However, a continued rise in inflation since then has coupled with a bearish market to push real yields into negative territory.
The stablecoin lending market has seen similar developments. ""Stablecoin farms are bleeding and fast as people aren't really paying attention to what matters. Your dollar yields NEED to be adjusted against inflation,"" Split Capital's Zaheer Ebtikar tweeted.
While the real yield from the cash-and carry-arbitrage has turned negative, it's still higher than the inflation-adjusted risk-free rate of return in traditional markets.
According to Investopedia, the yield on the U.S. three-month Treasury bill is widely considered a proxy for risk-free returns. That yield was 0.398% at press time, amounting to a CPI-adjusted risk-free rate of -7.5%. For the 10-year Treasury, the real rate comes to -5.75%, also underperforming the crypto cash-and-carry return.
The crypto market's relative attractiveness will continue to draw traditional market money, according to Split Capital's Ebtikar.
""Even though stablecoin yield and cash-and-carry are yielding negative in crypto, there are still billions that are yielding even more negative outside of crypto that will continue to come into crypto,"" Ebtikar told CoinDesk in a Twitter chat. ""The USD implied funding rate from futures minus USD inflation is the lowest it's ever been, basically.""
According to quantitative trading firm and liquidity provider Folkvang Trading's Jeff Anderson, there is still interest in the cash-and-carry arbitrage, also known as the basis trade, but the focus has shifted to other crypto subsectors like non-fungible tokens (NFTs).
""We see new entrants every week who are trying basis arb,"" Anderson said in an email. ""The money for the last six months, though, has not been focused on coins. Retail flows have been directed at NFTs while institutional cash is funneled into VC land.""
Arcane Research's Lunde foresees capital moving into crypto market-making activities or volatility trading.
""What possibly may attract tradfi [traditional market investors] at the moment, I'd presume, is liquidity provision and market making, or even the low volatility,"" Lunde said in a Twitter chat. ""Decentralized option vaults (DOV) have contributed to lowering the implied volatilities (IV) in the options market, and contrarian volatility bets might become a more common strategy, offsetting the DOV pressure on the IV.""
DeFi option vaults became popular in the last quarter of 2021 and have contributed to the steady decline in bitcoin and ether implied volatilities, as noted in the First Mover newsletter dated Jan. 10. That has reduced yields on options selling. Implied volatility has a positive impact on the option's price.
However, according to Shiliang Tang, chief investment officer of crypto hedge fund LedgerPrime, there are still pockets of good yield in some decentralized finance pools and options.
""The simple decentralized finance pools are low single digits, but some more complex pools like on [AVAX-based stableswap platform] Platypus or [scaling solution] Cosmos are still ~ 20%,"" Tang said in a Telegram chat. Cash-and-carry arbitrage and trading out-of-the-money higher strike call options were LedgerPrime's preferred strategies in the first half of 2021."
37,303,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/18/web-3-gaming-platform-on-terra-blockchain-gets-25m-boost-from-ftx-jump-crypto/,Web 3 Gaming Platform on Terra Blockchain Raises $25M in Token Sale,"FTX Ventures, Jump Crypto and Animoca Brands were among the purchasers in the sale that values C2X, a Hashed-advised gaming platform, at $500 million.",2022-03-18,"Blockchain gaming platform C2X raised $25 million in a private token sale that included purchases from FTX Ventures, Jump Crypto and Animoca Brands, its parent company MetaMagnet announced Thursday.
The investments values the platform at $500 million. C2X says it also has plans to launch its own publicly traded token by the same name, though no date for the release has been set, according to a press release.
The platform, which will include “token economics, NFT marketplaces and a wallet,” will be built on the Terra blockchain and advised by Hashed, a longtime investor in the Web 3 gaming industry and major player in the Terra ecosystem.
C2X says it will also be “guided heavily” and in part developed by South Korean game publisher Com2us, which is also advised by Hashed, according to the press release.
“Right now sentiment has completely shifted since the growth of Axie, the NFT boom and major talent inflow to Web 3,” Baek Kim, managing partner at Hashed, told CoinDesk in a Telegram message, referring to Axie Infinity, a popular blockchain-based online game.
“Com2us is pivoting to be a Web 3-first gaming company,"" Kim said.
Hashed participated in C2X’s private token sale and raised a $200 million fund of its own to support Web 3 gaming and ecosystems in December.
The investment in C2X is the latest affirmation of the confidence that FTX, Jump Crypto and Animoca Brands have in the growing Web 3 gaming industry. The trio’s support for the sector has included hundreds of millions of dollars of investment in the past year through various gaming funds.
“Blockchain technology provides a transparent and secure platform for users to buy, sell and store assets, and applying this concept to video games was the logical next step,” Paul Kim, director of MetaMagnet, said in the press release. “C2X puts the power in the hands of the users and builders, not in a single centralized entity, enabling the full community to direct the platform’s operations and fully invest in its success.”"
38,1190,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/03/21/what-layer-1-protocols-must-learn-from-the-telecom-crash/,What Layer 1 Protocols Must Learn From the Telecom Crash,"Investments in protocols Solana, Polygon and Avalanche, among others, as well as layer 2 companion protocols, became increasingly profitable in 2021.",2022-03-21,"One of the main investment themes of 2021 was the alternative blockchain networks, the base networks or layer 1s, competing against Ethereum for decentralized applications.
Investments in protocols @solana, Polygon, Fantom, Near, Avalanche, Arbitrum, Cosmos, Polkadot and others, as well as layer 2 companion protocols, became increasingly profitable.
These protocols are manufacturers of a particular good – decentralized computation. Such computation can power any type of software, but is particularly apt for digital scarcity, property rights and provenance. Decentralized computation has a supply, a certain amount of demand and a variable price in the cost of gas. Not dinosaur bone gas, but the digital one used to turn on the global network machines.
Lex Sokolin, a CoinDesk columnist, is global fintech co-head at ConsenSys, a Brooklyn, N.Y.-based blockchain software company. The following is adapted from his Fintech Blueprint newsletter.
The other framework is a war over developers to build applications within particular standards regimes. This is the story of Betamax vs. VHS, Apple vs. Windows, iOS vs. Android as well as the Chinese super apps. There exist some number of relevant platforms – let's say more than one but fewer than five – which can provide substitute versions of a particular operating stratum. Those platforms are valuable only if gardened by third-party gardeners, i.e., the developers that make the applications.
Read More: Alts Find It Tough to Beat Layer 1 King Ethereum
If there are many applications, users appear and use them. Users often have the highest willingness to pay. You might think Facebook is free, but remember you paid $1,000 to Apple (AAPL) for the privilege of having a phone. Thereafter, if there are users in your platform, developers value that as a distribution channel in addition to a technology enabler. Such viral loops can create positive network effects, which allow certain equilibria to hold, and others to collapse.
So layer 1s do both – they provide the computational unit as well as the market context in which that computational unit is generated and executed.
So shouldn’t incumbents like Ethereum win this power law game? Well, not if there are ways to bribe and overpower the game. You can see that play out today in the value locked, i.e., collateral, moving around things like Terra, Avalanche, and (still) Binance Smart Chain. In September 2020, Ethereum had 90% of the assets on the market, and today it has about 50%. It is important to understand how and why.
Ecosystem playbook
Here’s an example. Avalanche is launching a $290 million incentive program to grow the applications built on its technology. The protocol’s fully diluted market cap is about $30 billion today. So we are talking about a 1% spend of the market cap on platform growth and recursive customer acquisition.
The Solana, FTX, Silicon Valley story is also a good example. For Ethereum, ConsenSys played the role of ecosystem fund in the early days, eventually generating sufficient building and adoption by the community.
Read More: Avalanche, Layer 1 Tokens Soared in November as Ethereum Fees Drove Competition
At a meta level, these funds are a commitment of some amount of the protocol’s token supply for marketing and user acquisition. The users are applications builders, and they bring the consequent retail users thereafter. The recursive motion is that once applications are built and people spend their money on purchasing the protocol’s product, which if you remember is decentralized computation, the value of that computation rises, at least for some time.
It’s the same thing as Microsoft (MSFT) or Apple giving developers grants to be first in a new operating system. Or PayPal (PYPL) and Wells Fargo (WFC) paying new users a $100 reward for opening an account. It’s the same thing as enterprise launching corporate venture arms to capture innovation, and redirect it to that enterprise’s core business, like cloud for AWS or money movement for Visa (V) and Mastercard (MA). It’s also the same thing as liquidity mining rewards for Compound or Uniswap.
The story of infrastructure
Hopefully, we are making obvious points – spend on marketing, grow your adoption against others, build in profitability, use profitability to grow share. We thought Ethereum had this on lock, but the reality is that there’s a lot more risk capital out there wanting to recreate a layer 1 investment return profile. We can imagine $10 billion ecosystem funds doing battle in 2024 for governments, giant tech companies and other industrial whales (large holders).
All this subsidy boils down to the supply and demand of decentralized computation. If we create lots of competing rails that manufacture computation, that capacity may or may not be consumed.
To that end, here’s a useful reminder about what happened to telecoms around the year 2000. Telecom companies were busy laying new capacity for the internet, and competing on generating more bandwidth for usage that hadn’t yet materialized. This physical investment led to oversupply. As demand from builders fell as their startups evaporated, so did the value of the infrastructure.
If we zoom out a bit further, here is the revenue pool of telecoms through and after the Internet pop. Very obviously, the internet is here to stay and the collapse of a particular price bubble holds no real meaning that informs long term fundamental trends.
Being an internet bear forever in 2003 means you've generated a mental block for yourself from understanding the world. And yet, being a bear around revenue and valuation of a particular infrastructure sector is another story – and a rational expectation. Trends like commoditization and Moore’s law overpowered the ability of these companies to hold price, even as demand sky-rocketed.
We are as bullish as anyone out there on Web 3, and won’t regurgitate the core thesis. But the astute observer should watch the layer 1 competition with long-term clarity. A bunch of current growth is powered by marketing and financial incentives, such that well-positioned people can generate a lot of wealth through new token issuance. It’s like IPOing your telecom, and using the stock to fund internet apps on your network. That might get a short-term pop but doesn’t feel like the right, sustainable or sensible equilibrium of fundamental progress. How quaint, indeed.
We also shouldn’t forget that the most valuable Internet companies are not the Ciscos of the world, but those providing media (Google, Facebook) and commerce (Amazon) – the core value prop of Web 1 and Web 2. One should pause to think about the relationship of Apple (hardware access) and AWS (centralized computation) to the whole thing, but that’s for another day. And in Web 3, the “value” is in the $ value.
Read More: What DeFi Has in Common With Cubism"
39,1183,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/21/first-mover-asia-why-bitcoin-started-the-week-slowly-ether-rises/,First Mover Asia: Why Bitcoin Started the Week Slowly; Ether Rises,Trading of bitcoin has been light as investors seem to be taking measure of an unsettled macroeconomic environment.,2022-03-21,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $41,000, even after hawkish comments from the chair of the U.S. central bank.
Insights: Bitcoin started the week slowly in Asia, and some investors may be placing their bets on DeFi.
Technician's take: Bitcoin's pullbacks could be limited over the short term.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $41,242 +0.1%
Ether (ETH): $2,918 +2%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,461 -1.9%
DJIA: 34,552 -0.5%
Nasdaq: 13,838 -0.4%
Gold: $1,935 +0.8%
Ether gains as bitcoin holds
Bitcoin (BTC) stood roughly where it did 24 hours ago, a little over $41,000, after a brief dip below this threshold following hawkish monetary policy comments from U.S. central bank Chair Jerome Powell.
Ether (ETH), the second-largest crypto by market cap after bitcoin, was changing hands at about $2,900, up over 2%. Other major cryptos were mixed. Trading volume was light as investors take stock of fast-moving, global macroeconomic trends. Bitcoin peaked at over $42,000 last week, buoyed by China's commitment to support its flailing real estate and technology sectors.
Major stock indexes retrenched after Powell said in a speech at the National Association for Business Economics annual conference in Washington D.C. that the Federal Reserve might raise interest in 50-basis-point increments to tame inflation, which has been plaguing the U.S. economy, and threatens to worsen amid fall-out from Russia's intensifying attacks on Ukraine. On Monday, Russian forces bombed a mall in the capital city of Kyiv, continuing its target of civilian locations, and U.S. President Joe Biden warned that Russia might launch cyberattacks on major U.S. companies in retaliation for severe economic sanctions.
The price of Brent crude oil, a widely watched measure of the energy market, rose 7% to $112 per barrel. Russia is one of the world's leading suppliers of oil.
Katie Stockton, founder and Managing Partner of Fairlead Strategies, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that the low trading volumes were ""very normal in a sideways trending market.""
""Think about it as a tug of war between buyers and sellers and a period of indecisiveness,"" she said. ""I think that indecisiveness is reflecting itself in the lighter volumes, the less decisive trendy moves. ""Then it just becomes a question as to whether that consolidation phase reconciles to the upside or the downside.""
She added: ""We do think it will be reconciled to the upside with our short-term bullish bias. We see it as a function of that, and we would expect with any kind of breakout, let's say above $45,000, we would expect volumes to come back into the market.""
Bitcoin starts slowly in Asia
Bitcoin started the trading week in Asia slowly, spending most of the day hovering around the $41,000 point, according to data from CoinDesk Indices.
But that’s bitcoin’s problem. But Layer 1 protocols like Avalanche rose 32% last week, while liquidity protocol Aave hit 34% in weekly gains and Ethereum pushed through 15% on the week.
Data from Glassnode reflects this.
The number of active addresses on the network are at a monthly low while long-term HODLers are at a yearly high. Likely there’s a lot of bitcoin parked to get liquidity on better-performing assets.
Interest rates on bitcoin margin loans – used to trade the cryptocurrency on exchanges with extra leverage – are effectively flat, indicating an oversupply in the market. Bitfinex isn’t currently charging a fee for the loans, and Poloniex charges only 0.4%.
And where is all this bitcoin going? Likely into decentralized finance (DeFi). The Bored Ape Yacht Club-linked ApeCoin (APE) seemed to be the most exciting new thing on the blockchain, jumping over 10% during the day. As CoinDesk reported, APE covered calls were hitting a 42% projected annualized yield.
There are also staking possibilities. With the launch of Eth 2.0 soon to occur, traders are becoming increasingly bullish on ether with projected yields hitting 10% to 15%.
But remember, that all this isn’t necessarily a bad thing for bitcoin. Bitcoin’s volatility index was at a monthly low and approaching a yearly low as the market stabilized after the Fed raised rates as expected. All this helps the narrative of bitcoin as a store of value, not something that reacts violently to market gyrations as we saw last year. More bitcoin held with confidence for the long term is more liquidity available for DeFi.
Bitcoin Fades From Resistance; Support at $37K-$40K
Bitcoin (BTC) is consolidating around the $41,000 price level amid declining trading volume.
The cryptocurrency is roughly flat over the past 24 hours, and pullbacks could be limited toward a strong support base at $37,000.
Further, the relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart is declining from overbought levels, which reflects a loss of upside momentum. On the daily chart, the RSI is holding above the 50 neutral mark, which means buyers could remain active at lower support levels.
On the weekly chart, technical indicators are improving, similar to what occurred in August 2021, which preceded a 60% price rally. This time, however, there is negative momentum on the monthly chart, which typically precedes rangebound or negative price action. That means upside could be limited around the $46,000-$50,000 resistance zone.
9 p.m. HKT/SGT (1 p.m. UTC): Speech by U.S. Central Bank Chair Jerome Powell to the National Association for Business Economics
9 a.m. HKT/SGT (1 a.m. UTC): Speech by Australia central bank Governor Philip Lowe
3 p.m. HKT/SGT (7 a.m. UTC): U.K. public sector net borrowing (Feb.)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Stellar’s Denelle Dixon on its CBDC Pilot With Ukraine, $30M Fund for Blockchain Startups
Stellar Development Foundation CEO Denelle Dixon joined ""First Mover"" to discuss Ukraine's central bank digital currency (CBDC) project, and plan for Stellar's latest $30 million push to fund startups. Plus, Katie Stockton of Fairlead Strategies provided crypto mining insights and CoinDesk mining reporter Aoyon Ashraf looked at the state of the global mining industry as CoinDesk kicked off its Mining Week series.
Naomi Osaka Becomes Latest FTX 'Ambassador,' Joining Tom Brady and More: The tennis star gets shares in the global crypto exchange as part of the deal.
Abu Dhabi Free Zone Seeks Comments on NFT Rules: A consultation paper is looking to bring NFTs into the emirate's regulatory framework for virtual assets.
Crypto Funds Suffer Second Straight Week of Outflows: Investors continue to be daunted by the uncertain market and economic environment.
Traders Bet on Ether Staking After Ethereum 2.0 Upgrade: Ether staking yields are likely to be in the range of 10% to 15% following the Ethereum 2.0 upgrade, one trader said.
BofA Initiates Coverage of Silvergate With ‘Buy’ Rating, Sees 50% Potential Upside: The crypto bank is one of the best positioned companies to benefit from the expanding use of stablecoins, the report said.
What Is ApeCoin and Who Is Behind It?: A carefully coordinated marketing campaign takes great pains to distance the new token from Yuga Labs, but the firm that created the Bored Ape NFTs appears to be deeply involved.
Today's crypto explainer: OpenSea Marketplace: How to Buy, Sell and Mint NFTs
Other voices: What Is Web 3? (The New York Times)
Several years ago, people realized that blockchains (the shared, decentralized databases that power bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies) could be used to create unique, uncopyable digital files. And because these files were simply entries on a public database, anyone could verify who owned them, or track them as they changed hands. That realization prompted the creation of the first NFTs. (The New York Times) ... ""But DAOs may themselves be in for a change that could fix perhaps their most significant vulnerability. The current DAO model is human-run, and as a result, DAO decisions are prone to errors in judgment. The use of artificial intelligence, another transformative technology, would eliminate those mistakes and make DAOs even more effective."" (SingularityDAO CEO Marcello Mari) ... ""Millions of users now have blockchain wallets and accounts. They have stablecoins and cryptocurrencies and access to digital contracts. They represent a ready market of investors and buyers with a demonstrated willingness to try new things. And that may, in turn, become more important than using blockchain technology for use cases that are ideally decentralized."" (EY Blockchain Lead and CoinDesk columnist Paul Brody)"
40,505,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/22/ftx-us-acquires-good-luck-games-amid-gaming-push/,FTX Acquires Good Luck Games Amid Gaming Push,"The developer of the upcoming card battle game ""Storybook Brawl"" will become a part of the newly formed FTX Gaming division.",2022-03-22,"Cryptocurrency exchange FTX has acquired Good Luck Games, developer of the upcoming card battle game Storybook Brawl for an undisclosed amount. Good Luck Games will be integrated into FTX Gaming following the acquisition.
News broke last month that FTX was launching a gaming unit to encourage game publishers to adopt cryptocurrencies through a “crypto-as-a-service” platform.
Founded in 2019, Olympia, Washington-based Good Luck Games is led by four veteran card game designers and former professional players with ties to games Magic: The Gathering and The Elder Scrolls: Legends.
Storybook Brawl, currently in early access on Steam, is a card-based auto-battler game featuring fairytale and mythical characters. The game is designed to be simple to play, but the wide variety of cards also allow for more strategic game play and the possibility of creating blockchain-backed digital game assets.
The mobile version of Storybook Brawl is expected to launch this summer.
“We're excited to explore what the intersection of [non-fungible tokens], crypto, blockchain and gaming looks like. But we're even more excited to see where Storybook goes,” FTX CEO and co-founder Sam Bankman-Fried wrote on Twitter, revealing he has known the Good Luck Games team since middle school. “Our mission is to help them build the best games they can – with as much (or little!) integration with FTX as they want.”
Gamers haven’t reacted well in the past to the integration of blockchain-based features in traditional games. Prominent game studio Ubisoft faced backlash late last year when it rolled out in-game NFTs.
Read more: FTX Invests $100M in Banking App Dave, Forms Partnership for Crypto Payments"
41,1186,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/22/first-mover-asia-part-of-singapores-crypto-allure-is-a-sheen-of-transparency-is-the-city-state-changing/,First Mover Asia: Part of Singapore’s Crypto Allure Is a Sheen of Transparency. Is the City-State Changing?,"There was no apparent, clear explanation for the Monetary Authority of Singapore's decision to place crypto fund DeFiance Capital on an ""Investor Alert List;"" bitcoin and major cryptos surge.",2022-03-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin soars past $43,000 before retrenching but was still up for the day.
Insights: The reasons for a Singapore regulator's decision to place crypto fund DeFiance Capital on an ""Investor Alert List"" was unclear.
Technician's take: Momentum is turning bullish over the short term.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $42,725 +3.5%
Ether (ETH): $3,011 +3.2%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos are in the green
Bitcoin leaped past $43,000 before retrenching well under this mark, but was still recently up nearly 4% over the previous 24 hours. Ether soared past $3,000 for the first time in two weeks, a more than 3% gain, and most other major altcoins in the CoinDesk top 20 by market capitalization were well into the green.
Bitcoin was changing hands at about $42,700. Cardano's ADA and Polkadot's DOT rose over 7% at certain points. Axie Infinity token AXS and shiba inu (SHIB) were up over 5% and 3%, respectively.
CoinDesk's Market Wrap on Tuesday noted that some analysts have approached the spike in prices with caution because of uncertainty about the appetite for risk.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Mark Chandler, managing director and chief market strategist for capital markets trading firm Bannockburn Global Forex, said that more hawkish monetary policy could hurt crypto in the long term. “Crypto is acting more like a risk asset than an inflation protection,” he said.
But in the short term, Chandler attributed crypto's rise the past few days to improvement in equity markets, particularly the Nasdaq. ""That is a kind of rally that risk assets like and that's why crypto is primarily rallying,"" Chandler said.
The tech-focused Nasdaq jumped nearly 2% on Tuesday, while the S&P 500 rose 1.1%
Chandler said ether had been outperforming bitcoin because investors have been intrigued by a number of projects that promise ""to increase the efficiency and reduce its carbon footprint. That might be attracting some money and help explain why ether is doing better than bitcoin.""
But he said he was also concerned the U.S. central bank would not be able ""to engineer a soft landing"" that brings down inflation without recession. The Federal Reserve increased interest rates 25 basis points last week as was widely expected to combat rising inflation, and on Monday, Fed Chair Jerome Powell suggested in a speech that future increases this year could come in 50-basis point increments.
Chandler noted the Fed had ""revised growth down, inflation higher, interest rates higher"" but not unemployment. ""Many people are going to be surprised that we do not get a rise in unemployment.""
Markets
S&P 500: 4,511 +1.1%
DJIA: 34,807 +0.7%
Nasdaq: 14,108 +1.8%
Gold: $1,920 -.2%
Singapore loses some transparency
Singapore has been celebrated as crypto’s natural home in Asia.
Its judiciary and regulators are fair, quick and efficient, the air is clean and the population speaks English fluently. Its strongman founder, Lee Kuan Yew, believed that prosperous nations are ones where the rich aren’t above the law; civil servants are handsomely paid to help ensure they are immune to bribes. Judges must rule on commercial disputes citing case law, not thinking about favors and connections.
But a strange thing happened this week in Singapore’s crypto scene. DeFiance Capital, one of the many crypto funds registered in the city, was put on an ""Investor Alert List"" by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the central bank and regulator.
“The Investor Alert List provides a list of unregulated persons who, based on information received by MAS, may have been wrongly perceived as being licensed or regulated by MAS,” is how MAS describes it.
MAS didn’t respond to a CoinDesk query to provide a detailed explanation of why DeFiance Capital was placed on the list and not any of its peers, such as Three Arrows Capital, that are registered in the city.
DeFiance Capital told CoinDesk that “inclusion on the IAL carries no implication of legal impropriety but simply indicates that DeFiance Capital, like many other crypto-native VCs in Singapore, are not yet regulated by MAS.”
But DeFiance Capital is also unsure what happened.
“We are currently trying to understand how this issue came about. Prior to this we were proactively working with MAS to communicate our operations in Singapore,” the fund said in an email to CoinDesk, noting that its investment activities and operations remain unaffected.
Although being on this list doesn’t signify any sort of wrongdoing, that might be lost on casual observers when they see a fund’s name – and not that of its peers – on an “alert list.”
For Singapore, this is surprising. The entire place differentiates itself from its peers by the transparency of its regulatory process. Regulatory black holes, where things are considered on a whim or royal fiat and not explained, are for other countries, not a place vying to be Asia’s dominant financial hub.
Bitcoin Rises Above $42K; Resistance at $46K-$50K
Bitcoin (BTC) is holding support above $40,000 as short-term momentum signals improve. For now, pullbacks appear to be limited, which means buyers could remain active toward the $46,000-$50,000 resistance zone.
The cryptocurrency is up 4% over the past 24 hours and is attempting to establish a higher price range on the charts.
A decisive breakout above $46,000 is needed to shift the four-month-long downtrend. Typically, price rallies stall after retracing 50% of the prior down move, similar to what occurred in September 2021 around the $50,000 price level.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart remains in bullish territory (above 50), indicating renewed buying activity. On the weekly chart, momentum indicators are on the verge of turning positive for the first time since August, which preceded a strong price rally.
Still, a bearish set-up remains on the monthly chart, which means upside could be limited.
Avalanche Summit Barcelona
3:20 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:20 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank board member Luis de Guindos participates in a panel discussion at Money Review's Banking Summit.
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan leading economic index (Jan.)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin, Ether Rise in Spite of Powell Rate Hike Comments, Ray Dalio’s Bridgewater To Back a Crypto Fund
Marc Chandler of Bannockburn Global Forex joined ""First Mover"" to provide market analysis as investors weigh Fed Chair Jerome Powell's inflation comments. Also joining were Ava Labs President John Wu from the Avalanche Summit in Barcelona, and Joe Vezzani of social intelligence for crypto platform LunarCrush.
Cross-Border CBDC Payments Are 'Viable,' Says Report From Central Banks of Australia, Malaysia, Singapore and South Africa: The four central banks are working on a project that will develop and test shared platforms for international settlements with multiple CBDCs.
Crypto Providers Would Have to Swap Transaction Details Under OECD Tax-Dodging Proposal: Details of overseas crypto holdings would be shared with home tax authorities under the planned extension of rules intended to bust financial secrecy.
Indian Crypto Industry Mulls Supreme Court Move as Tax Break Expectations Disappear: The fading hope is that the government may reduce the 1% tax deducted at source, but expectations of a tax break on crypto capital gains have all but disappeared.
UK Advertising Regulator Issues 'Red Alert' Guidance on Crypto Ads: Companies advertising crypto services have until May 2 to ensure their ads meet the new guidance.
Polychain Leads $22M Investment in NFT Appraisal Protocol Upshot: The project wants to bridge the worlds of DeFi and NFT.
FTX Invests $100M in Banking App Dave, Forms Partnership for Crypto Payments: FTX US will serve as the exclusive partner for any crypto offerings offered by Dave.
Crypto Mining, the Energy Crisis and the End of ESG: How a European war made an argument about mining moot. This op-ed is part of Mining Week.
Today's crypto explainer: What Does a Crypto Mining Farm Look Like? Striking Photos From Siberia to Spain
Other voices: Ethereum cofounder Vitalik Buterin warns about Bored Ape NFTs and massive displays of wealth in crypto: 'It becomes a different kind of gambling'
“There is an obvious need to move expeditiously to return the stance of monetary policy to a more neutral level, and then to move to more restrictive levels if that is what is required to restore price stability."" (U.S. central bank Chair Jerome Powell) .... ""During multiple trips to the 10-megawatt facility, CoinDesk didn’t observe any staff or security guards (cameras and bright spotlights might be enough to deter would-be thieves). Locals told CoinDesk that during winter months, homeless people are known to wander in through the open doors, seeking a warm place to sleep."" (CoinDesk writers Cheyenne Ligon, Fran Velasquez, for Mining Week) ... ""For a start, bitcoin is in vogue, but so is ESG. Big investors are more interested in BTC than ever before. They also want to put their money in sustainable investments."" (Zach Bradford, CEO of mining company CleanSpark) ... ""Mr. (Jake) Sullivan (national security adviser) said there will be “new designations, new targets” for sanctions inside of Russia. And he said the United States will make new announcements about efforts to help European nations wean themselves of their dependence on Russian energy."" (The New York Times)"
42,1189,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/24/david-beckham-tapped-by-digitalbits-blockchain-to-be-global-ambassador/,David Beckham Tapped by DigitalBits Blockchain to Be Global Ambassador,The retired soccer superstar will release a series of NFTs and blockchain-based digital assets on DigitalBits.,2022-03-24,"Former European soccer icon David Beckham has been named global brand ambassador for DigitalBits Blockchain, an open-source blockchain on which any asset can be tokenized, including NFTs (non-fungible tokens), sports teams and other brands.
The relationship with Beckham will help spread DigitalBits’ blockchain use to consumers and various global organizations, according to a statement. Additionally, Beckham will launch a series of NFTs and other blockchain-based digital assets that will be minted on DigitalBits blockchain.
Beckham has a digital following of more than 138 million people around the world, according to DigitalBits.
Crypto companies, particularly exchanges, have signed a slew of major professional athletes to become spokespeople and ambassadors in a bid to increase awareness of their services.
Excited to announce #DavidBeckham has become a Global Ambassador for #DigitalBits!

Get ready to explore the world of #Blockchain, #NFTs and #Metaverse with Beckham.

More details 👉https://t.co/yafO7W2OuL

Thread 👇 pic.twitter.com/n54BMeDsnE
Read more: Naomi Osaka Becomes Latest FTX 'Ambassador,' Joining Tom Brady and More"
43,1185,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/03/25/4-reasons-why-bitcoiners-should-pass-on-el-salvadors-bitcoin-bond/,4 Reasons Why Bitcoiners Should Pass on El Salvador's Bitcoin Bond,"El Salvador’s much-hyped ""volcano"" bond doesn’t hold up to scrutiny.",2022-03-25,"For crypto enthusiasts, El Salvador’s bitcoin-backed ""volcano"" bond is extremely exciting. Tokenizing a billion dollar sovereign bond on the blockchain would be a first. So would sidestepping traditional financial institutions to issue debt by using a crypto exchange and taking half the proceeds to buy bitcoin (BTC) and using the rest to fund infrastructure and bitcoin mining powered by geothermal energy. Unfortunately for bitcoiners, the bond has major red flags.
Frank Muci is a fellow at LSE’s School of Public Policy. His research interests include economic growth policy and public financial management.
For context, El Salvador’s government postponed the sale set for last week citing market conditions related to Ukraine and the price of bitcoin. But the country’s finance minister explained that the issuance is ready and President Nayib Bukele tweeted March 23 that the sale will happen once a local pension reform is approved.
So what are the concerns?
Finance Minister Alejandro Zelaya confirmed that a small state-owned energy company, LaGeo, will issue the bond, not the Republic of El Salvador. This may sound like a trivial distinction, but it is not.
With a 6.5% coupon, the billion-dollar bond will generate $65 million in annual interest expenses, but according to LaGeo’s financial statements, the company only booked $136 million in revenue last year and $36 million in profits. As a result, the added interest payments will make the company very unprofitable. Plus, LaGeo already has $205 million in long-term debt, so the bond would sextuple its leverage. This last-minute change makes little economic sense.
Finance Minister Zelaya recently implied that LaGeo’s bond would be backed by the full faith and credit of El Salvador, but a sovereign guarantee is not real until it is codified in a legally binding debt contract, which raises the next concern.
El Salvador’s government has not circulated a prospectus for the bitcoin bond. Those are usually 100-plus page legal documents that disclose financial information, warn of risk factors and indicate terms and conditions. In fact, authorities have not even published a whitepaper or website with the formula for the bitcoin dividend, plans to safeguard the $500 million bitcoin purchase or for that matter, any other basic facts. At this point, potential buyers are running on information from photographs of an outdated PowerPoint slide describing the bond from last November.
In addition, it appears the bond is set to be governed by local law in El Salvador, not by New York law like all of the country’s other bonds. If so, that means that any future disputes must be resolved in El Salvador’s court system, which has a weaker rule of law than the United States. Just last May, El Salvador’s congress voted to dismiss five judges from the Supreme Court and hastily replaced them in less than two months.
In any case, the new legal framework that is meant to govern the new tokenized bond has not been presented to El Salvador’s Congress or approved, so potential buyers don’t know what kinds of laws will govern the instrument.
None of this matters if El Salvador’s government is willing and able to repay the debt until it matures in 2032. But a lot can happen in ten years, so if either willingness to pay or ability to pay changes over the next decade, investors will be stuck holding a bond with questionable legal status in a jurisdiction that may not treat them fairly. This is very relevant given the next point.
El Salvador’s long-term bonds are currently trading for just a tad over 50 cents on the dollar because traditional financial markets expect that the country will stop repaying its debt soon, perhaps as early as next January when a large $800 million bond is due. Typically, countries in financial distress try to stave off economic crises by taking often drastic steps to regain fiscal sustainability, usually through some combination of spending cuts, tax increases and other structural reforms.
However, this does not appear to be the current plan in El Salvador, which raises the prospect of insolvency and a debt crisis. If El Salvador is widely expected to stop repaying debts in the next two to three years, it does not make sense for the country to issue yet more debt unless its government has charted a clear path to financial sustainability. That doesn’t seem to be the case right now.
In addition, the bond will be issued on Bitfinex, a crypto exchange that is banned in the United States and has been repeatedly fined by regulators. Bitfinex and its holding company iFinex have close ties to the Tether stablecoin through common shareholders and management. Tether also has a long record of run-ins with regulators, especially because of the opacity surrounding the U.S. dollar reserves backing its tokens.
Given these facts, it seems that partnering with another major crypto exchange, such as FTX or Coinbase, and using another stablecoin like USDC would broaden the universe of potential investors to include Americans and ease investor concerns about the questionable track record of bond’s sponsors.
For crypto to compete with traditional finance and break into the sovereign bond market, the first debt issuance by a nation-state on the blockchain needs to succeed. If the volcano bond fails, it will be ridiculed and make it difficult, if not impossible, for other countries to attempt something similar.
But what we’ve seen in El Salvador is one red flag after another. A last-minute change of the issuer from the national government to a small, little-known energy company. A worrying lack of legal documentation and basic information. No plans to curb the budget deficit and avoid a likely sovereign debt default. And partnerships with eyebrow-raising organizations. That’s why the bitcoin community should pass on the volcano bond until a better opportunity comes around.
Clarification (Mar. 25, 2022 22:08 UTC): Other El Salvador long bonds have different coupon yields besides the one featured here, which has a 9.5% coupon."
44,1196,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/28/animoca-brands-ubisoft-invest-in-12m-round-for-blockchain-game-cross-the-ages/,"Animoca Brands, Ubisoft Invest in $12M Round for Blockchain Game 'Cross the Ages'",The free-to-play card game features digital trading cards as NFTs that can also be converted to physical cards.,2022-03-28,"""Cross the Ages"" (CTA), a free-to-play game that features digital trading cards as non-fungible tokens (NFT), announced a $12 million seed round at an undisclosed valuation on Monday. The funding will go toward a development program, talent retention and go-to-market activities.
Investors included game-focused crypto investment firm Animoca Brands, major game publisher Ubisoft, Polygon (the blockchain powering the game) and Sebastian Borget, co-founder and COO of The Sandbox.
Blockchain gaming is a flourishing area of the crypto industry often viewed as the way to bring the next big wave of people into crypto. In January, the number of active blockchain games had doubled from the prior year to nearly 400. Crypto exchange giant FTX launched its own gaming unit in February, and last week announced the acquisition of Good Luck Games, maker of the free-to-play card battle game “Storybook Brawl.”
""Cross the Ages"" is a mobile-first collectible card game set in a dystopian future based on a series of free-to-read novels, the first of which is already available. Players compete individually and in teams for NFTs and have the option of converting digital cards into physical copies.
The game is slated to add metaverse elements by mid-2023, including quests based on clues in the novels. Developers, artists and gamers will also have the ability to create new cities and games.
The beta version of the CTA game will launch in late May followed by digital and physical cards in June. CTA will then debut an NFT marketplace and decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols suite, the latter of which will give users access to farming, pooling and bonding for optimized trading options within the game’s infrastructure.
“The CTA DeFi product will be accessible via the main user interface, but it will operate as its own standalone platform,” CTA co-founder and CEO Sami Chlagou told CoinDesk in an email. “We want to keep the gaming experience somewhat separate to ensure that the more commercial aspects of the CTA experiences do not distract from what will be a dynamic and unique metaverse gaming experience.”
The CTA team currently stands at over 140, which includes artists, authors, developers and business experts. The team is expected to grow to over 200 by the end of this year and potentially as large as 250 by mid-2023, said Chlagou.
Singapore-based CTA is headed by co-founder and Chairman Christophe de Courson, who has worked in blockchain technology and venture capital, and Chlagou, who is also the owner of game producer Pixel Heart, which has produced more than 50 games for platforms such as Nintendo, Xbox and PlayStation.
“Sami's vision of 'Cross The Ages' around creating an innovative, multidimensional entertainment format which players can participate in and own – between books, collectible trading cards in both physical and NFT formats and video gaming – is truly unique, and he has not only a top-notch team, but also a track record of successfully shipping games,” said The Sandbox’s Borget in a statement.
Read more: Pantera, Animoca Brands Co-Lead $10M Investment in Metaverse Game Studios
CORRECTION (March 28, 2022, 17:53 UTC): A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that CTA was based in France; it is based in Singapore."
45,1194,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/29/dubai-attracts-cryptocom-bybit-as-friendly-rules-bear-fruit/,"Dubai Attracts Crypto.com, Bybit as Friendly Rules Bear Fruit",Crypto.com is establishing an office in Dubai while Bybit is moving its global HQ.,2022-03-29,"Some of the biggest cryptocurrency exchanges in the world now plan to establish hubs in Dubai after the emirate announced the creation of a crypto-friendly regulatory regime.
Crypto.com announced on Monday that it plans to establish an office in Dubai and will launch a ""substantial recruitment drive"" in the months ahead to build its presence there. Bybit also revealed plans to move its global headquarters to Dubai after having received in-principle approval to ""conduct a full spectrum"" of virtual assets business in the emirate.
The moves, announced on the same day, come weeks after Dubai revealed its intention to create a regulatory and licensing authority for virtual assets businesses. After the announcement, FTX Europe and Binance obtained operational licenses in quick succession.
Earlier this month, the UAE's financial markets regulator also said that it was close to issuing a regulatory framework for digital assets.
The Emirate of Dubai is one of seven emirates forming the nation of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Another emirate, Abu Dhabi, has also been aggressive in its aim to become a crypto hub.
The apparent endorsement of digital assets comes as welcome news to crypto firms, especially given the mixed signals coming from other jurisdictions.
Read more: Crypto Payments Firm Wirex Withdraws From FCA's Register as Deadline Looms
For example, Singapore, the home of Crypto.com and the previous headquarter of Bybit, looked to curb the visibility of crypto firms before the public with new rules in January limiting the ability of such firms to advertise.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore stated that crypto is ""highly risky and not suitable for the general public"" and so digital payment token (DPT) service providers ""should not promote their DPT services to the general public."""
46,926,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/29/first-mover-asia-bc-technology-groups-crypto-platform-made-big-gains-in-2021-so-why-are-investors-unimpressed/,First Mover Asia: BC Technology Group’s Crypto Platform Made Big Gains in 2021. So Why Are Investors Unimpressed?,"OSL, which accounts for most of the Hong Kong company’s business, rose 63% in 2021, but the stock price has lagged bitcoin and other assets; bitcoin and ether tread water.",2022-03-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Insights: Revenue at BC Technology Group's OSL crypto assets platform, which accounts for most of its business, rose significantly but the company's share price has lagged bitcoin and other assets.
Technician's take: BTC appears to be overbought, although pullbacks cold be brief.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $47,225 -1%
Ether (ETH): $3,365 -0.6%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin and ether are flat; other major cryptos drop
After a week of gains, some rain fell on crypto prices, even as a few rays of good news beamed in from Ukraine.
Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was recently holding steady at about $47,250, slightly down over the last 24 hours. Ether was also treading water at about the same $3,350 mark it held a day earlier. Other major cryptos were largely in the red with popular meme coins DOGE and SHIB registering two of the biggest declines during certain points of the U.S. trading day at more than 6% each, respectively. Late in the day, Axie Infinity's AXS token had fallen 9%, while Cardano's ADA was off over 3.5%.
The declines came after seven consecutive days of mainly increases among major cryptos, which market analysts have struggled to explain although many have highlighted rising interest among institutional investors, including announcements by financial services powerhouses Goldman Sachs (GS) and BlackRock (BLK). The purchase over the past six days of $1.3 billion in bitcoin by the Singapore non-profit Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) as a reserve asset for UST, which is Terra's decentralized dollar-pegged stablecoin, and commitment to buy at least $1.7 billion more in BTC, further buoyed markets earlier this week. Terra's LUNA token reached an all-time high of over $109 on Tuesday.
Crypto's performance veered from stocks, which took a small swing upwards on Tuesday amid faintly brightening hopes of a ceasefire in Ukraine. A senior Russian defense minister said Russia would ratchet back its attacks on Ukraine's capital city Kyiv, which has been a primary target of the unprovoked invasion. Also, Russia's lead negotiator, in talks with Ukraine diplomats, said that Russia would be willing to have a meeting between the presidents of the two countries. Oil prices fell 2% at one point during the day, although they were recently up slightly.
Jeff Dorman, the COO of asset manager Arca, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" that investors may have felt encouraged by an increased sense of certainty in economic and wider events. ""Markets hate uncertainty,"" said Dorman, who noted a possible de-escalation in Ukraine and clearer direction by the U.S. Federal Reserve in taming inflation through interest rate hikes this year. Dorman also mentioned the poor performance of the bond market.
""The bond market is uninvestable right now, half of Europe and Asia is not investable,"" Dorman said. ""So where's money gonna go? It's not going to sit in cash forever. It's going to go into safer places, which is U.S. equities and real estate and also, perhaps ironically for some, digital assets.""
He added: ""So when you start to see inflows, you start to remove those negative overhangs, you look at the places that are heavy, positive catalysts or somewhat recession-proof. I would argue for Bitcoin specifically we've seen a massive, positive catalyst in the last eight weeks.""
S&P 500: 4,631 +1.2%
DJIA: 35,294 +0.9%
Nasdaq: 14,619 +1.8%
Gold: $1,919 -0.2%
A good year for Hong Kong's BC Technology Group, but where are the investors?
BC Technology Group is doing a lot right to meet strong, ongoing demand among investors for cryptocurrencies, but its stock price still hasn’t reflected the gains of its digital assets platform OSL, which accounts for most of the company’s revenue.
Whether BC Technology Group trades higher in the weeks and months ahead remains uncertain despite its apparent resiliency to increasing Chinese oversight of the administrative district.
In its annual earnings, released Tuesday, BC Technology said that OSL revenue increased by 63% to $35 million year-over-year, while platform volume increased 73% to around $40 billion annually, according to the BC Technology Group announcement. Overall, the company reported a 44% increase in revenue which it largely credits to bumps in trading income from OSL.
Digital assets now account for 75% of all of BC Technology Group’s revenues, meaning that it's not as weighed down by its exposure to macro issues in China’s equities market as it was before.
As an incidental note, the company said it would be changing the currency used in its financial statements to the Hong Kong dollar (HKD), not China's yuan (RMB). China is hostile to crypto so using HKD as a denomination for reporting makes more sense.
To be sure, BC technology still isn’t profitable. But the company attributed a net loss on the need to use the capital for global expansion.
Its mid-year earnings in August, showed equally impressive gains in revenue and volume. But is this enough to satisfy the market?
Investors have been cool on the stock, which has significantly underperformed bitcoin during the last six months.
While Coinbase (COIN) stock has also underperformed bitcoin – Singapore’s QCP has noted that investors are no longer prescribing much of a premium to licenses – the gap between BC Technology Group and bitcoin is much wider, with the company underperforming both the digital asset and the Hang Seng Index itself.
Granted, the company isn’t profitable, but tech investors are usually fine overlooking lack of profitability in the early years of a company with growth potential and won’t punish a stock for it.
Part of investors’ reluctance may have to do with the grand debate on whether Hong Kong or Singapore is the right home for digital assets in Asia. FTX called Hong Kong quits last fall, with its CEO calling the regulatory environment uncertain and quarantine measures stifling to business.
Stakeholders have complained about Hong Kong’s approach to the asset class with contradictory rules and advice on crypto from the city’s different regulators, praising Singapore’s whole-of-government approach that’s centered around the Monetary Authority of Singapore its hybrid central bank and regulator.
A sign of Singapore’s institutional endorsement of crypto can also be found in partially state-owned DBS’s digital asset trading desk – which OSL’s technology powers.
But those praises can turn into laments when Singapore does things like put crypto funds on Investor Alert Lists without explanation. Singapore’s Digital Payment Token license can also be exceedingly hard to attain.
Investors hate uncertainty.
BC Technology Group’s decision to take the regulatory approach that authorities in Hong Kong prefer for crypto was wise. OSL currently has the only SFC-licensed digital asset trading platform in Hong Kong.
But whether the market agrees with its overall strategy is still unclear. Its stock has a long way to climb.
Bitcoin approaching resistance at $48K-$51K, support at $45K
Bitcoin (BTC) is testing resistance at the 200-day moving average, which could trigger a brief pullback.
Upside momentum is starting to fade on intraday charts, which could keep buyers on the sidelines into the Asia trading day. Still, lower support at around $45,000 could stabilize pullbacks.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is overbought for the first time in five months, which means sellers could return at the $48,000-$51,000 resistance zone – a 50% reversal of the prior downtrend.
Further, BTC is two days away from registering a countertrend sell signal, according the DeMark indicators, similar to what occurred last August. At that stage, short-term buyers will likely defend support, especially because momentum signals turned positive on the weekly chart.
NFT LA Conference: An event for collectors, investors, creators and industry-professionals looking to learn more about Web 3.
Binance Blockchain Week: Conference featuring investors, developers and other connected to the blockchain industry.
ETHDubai: Event for developers and other connected or interested in Ethereum.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Goldman Sachs Partners With Galaxy Digital, Terra’s LUNA Sets New Highs
Galaxy Digital Managing Director Robert Bogucki joined ""First Mover"" to explain how his firm has facilitated Goldman Sachs to launch the Wall Street bank's first over-the-counter crypto options trade. Bitcoin's price was charging ahead while Terra's LUNA token was setting new highs. Jeff Dorman of Arca provided insights into the market rally. Plus, bitcoin's ESG debate continues. Bitfarms Chief Mining Officer Ben Gagnon weighed in.
Axie Infinity’s Ronin Network Suffers $625M Exploit: It may be the largest exploit in DeFi history.
Terra’s LUNA Set New Highs of Nearly $106: Prices have increased nearly 10% in the past 24 hours.
MicroStrategy Unit Gets $205M Collateral Loan From Silvergate to Buy Bitcoin: The term loan can also be used for general corporate purposes.
WisdomTree Launches Crypto ETPs for Solana, Cardano, Polkadot in Europe: Other ETP issuers are planning crypto-linked investment products that also yield staking returns.
Money Continues to Pour Into GameFi, but Will Developers Follow?: One of the hottest sectors for investors is seeing mixed reactions from top talent.
Book Excerpt: 3 Stories of Bitcoin Changing Lives Outside the 'Dollar Bubble': Alex Gladstein describes how Bitcoin offered entrepreneurs in Nigeria, Sudan and Ethiopia a much-needed, financial resource for helping their families and communities throughout their countries.
Today's crypto explainer: What's the Most Profitable NFT Strategy: Buying at Mint or Later?
Other voices: Ukraine is selling a timeline of the Russian invasion as NFTs (The Verge)
""In the less than 24 hours since megastar Will Smith permanently damaged his public image by slapping Chris Rock, a man half his size, the cryptosphere has launched at least two projects purporting to somehow put the event on the blockchain. Despite no obvious logical connection between crypto and The Slap Heard Round the World, the newly minted digital assets even appear to have generated some sales."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""At a 'Metaverse Cocktail Hour for Fashionistxs,' hosted by Cash Labs, it was abundantly clear who had MANA and who didn’t. My avatar was dressed plainly, with a default hairstyle and a default black turtleneck. Users with fancier gear – massive sets of wings, bear costumes, swarms of digital butterflies – stole the spotlight."" (CoinDesk columnist Will Gottsegen) ... ""Among the digital asset rules the administration is looking to update are amending the mark-to-market rules to include digital assets; requiring reporting by certain taxpayers of foreign digital asset accounts; providing for information reporting by financial institutions and crypto brokers; and treating loans of securities as tax-free to include other asset classes and “address income inclusion. The administration estimates that modernizing these rules will bring in almost $11 billion in revenue between 2023-2032, with more than $4.8 billion coming from the first year of applying mark-to-market rules to digital assets."" (CoinDesk) ... “After falling during the peak of COVID-19 lockdowns in 2020, the rates at which so-called prime-age workers –those aged 25 to 54 – are working or seeking work has rallied back to pre-pandemic levels. Yet, with the economy growing faster than in decades, demand for labor has outpaced the availability of workers – at least at the wages and benefits employers are offering."" (The New York Times)"
47,1192,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/30/first-mover-asia-india-continues-its-restrictive-approach-to-crypto-bitcoin-ether-run-in-place/,"First Mover Asia: India Continues Its Restrictive Approach to Crypto; Bitcoin, Ether Run in Place",The Indian tax authority's recent revision of what was seized in taxes and penalties from crypto exchanges reflects the government's harsh stance toward digital assets; Solana has a banner day.,2022-03-30,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether run in place, but other major cryptos, including SOL, rose significantly.
Insights: India has not been the friendliest place for crypto lately; BC Technology Group maintains high hopes.
Technician's take: BTC buyers could remain active over the short term.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $46,957 -0.5%
Ether (ETH): $3,386 +0.4%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin and ether are flat
Bitcoin and ether spent another day running in place.
The two largest cryptos by market capitalization were roughly flat over the past 24 hours, bitcoin under $47,000, just below its frequent resting spot the past few days, and ether just under $3,400. It was the second consecutive day where prices of both moved little from where they stood the preceding day.
Most other major cryptos in the CoinDesk top 20 by market cap were in the green, a few significantly so. SOL and AVAX were up 7% and 5% at certainly points, respectively, and the meme token SHIB rose about 3%.
Crypto's checkered price performance came as Russia continued its unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and new signs of a worsening global, economic environment.
Fueled by war-related increases in fuel prices and worsening supply chain problems, inflation soared in Germany and Spain to highs not seen in both countries since the 1980s. Spain's consumer price index rose to nearly 10%, jumping by more than two percentage points since February. Germany took an initial step toward natural gas rationing, which about half the population uses for heating.
The price of Brent crude, a widely considered measure of the energy market, hovered over $110 on Wednesday after dipping below $105 earlier in the week.
Oanda Americas senior analyst Edward Moya said that after a week of gains ""bitcoin's rally"" was ""taking a breather and that should remain the case as war concerns completely dominate the short-term fate for most risky assets.""
Moya was cautious about the asset's near-term future. ""Bitcoin needs a catalyst to make a run towards the $50,000 level, so for now it seems like it could consolidate between the $45,000 and $48,000 levels,"" he said.
S&P 500: 4,602 -0.6%
DJIA: 35,228 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 14,442 -1.2%
Gold: $1,934 +0.9%
India continues its crypto crackdown; BC Technology Group is Optimistic
As crypto goes, there are easier places to operate than India.
The country's tax authority announced on Monday that it had seized Rs. 95.86 crore (US$12.6 million) from 11 crypto exchanges on allegations of tax evasion.
CoinDesk had reported in January that the country's Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), which oversees tax collection, had previously seized around Rs. 84 crore (about $11 million) in taxes and 1.1 crore ($145,000) in penalties. India’s Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary revised the amount to 95.86 crore ($12.6 million) in a statement.
The government said in January that it was investigating six exchanges, including India's largest exchanges, WazirX, CoinDCX and BuyUCoin, as part of an anti-tax evasion initiative, but Chaudhary updated the number.
The announcement comes a week after the government passed a finance bill that included a whopping 30% capital gains tax on crypto transactions and a 1% tax deducted at source (TDS) and no offsetting losses. The vote ignored lobbying by industry advocates who had hoped to water down at least the source tax.
On Friday, April 1, crypto companies must begin paying the capital gains tax, with T1% tax deducted at the source as of July 1.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is still planning a rollout of a digital rupee by the end of 2022-23, seen as the cornerstone of the country's crypto policy. That approach is more cautious and in keeping with the Indian government's recent authoritarian leanings.
***
HK’s BC Technology Group waits for regulators to catch up to Web 3
Hong Kong’s BC Technology Group, the parent of the city’s institutionally focused OSL exchange, saw its stock trend upwards as the market opened Wednesday following its strong earnings report.
During a Wednesday morning earnings call, company executives emphasized they still believe a regulated pool of capital provides the biggest opportunity in crypto because there remains a huge market of institutional traders that can’t yet touch anything not regulated.
This includes Web 3, decentralized finance (DeFi) and non-fungible tokens (NFT), Wayne Trench, CEO of OSL, explained on the call.
“DeFi is amazing, but it’s hard for a regulated firm to trade in the DeFi market because of the lack of [anti-money laundering] controls,” he said.
But while the regulatory regime might inhibit some forms of market trading, it also opens up new opportunities. Regulated coin lending, for instance, is something that Coinbase (COIN) has struggled to navigate but regulators in Hong Kong have no problem with it – provided it stays within the closed regulatory loop of other professional investors.
The executive team also mentioned that although OSL is a regulated exchange closed to retail traders, the company does have retail exposure via DBS’s digital assets exchange, which runs on OSL’s software. During its last earnings, DBS said that it is planning to launch a retail exchange by year’s end.
Over the next six months (companies in Hong Kong report earnings bi-annually), all eyes will be on the stock of OSL’s parent company to see if investors are valuing its efforts.
The company is growing significantly by the numbers, and its stock has made some progress in small increments. But on the week it still underperforms bitcoin.
The gap narrowed on Wednesday, at least compared to a month ago, but it still exists. Six months later we’ll see if the market vindicates the company’s regulated-first approach.
Bitcoin Holding Support Above $46K; Resistance at $48K-$51K
Bitcoin (BTC) is attempting to break above a tight trading range between $46,000 and $48,000 as momentum remains positive.
Initial resistance is seen at the 200-day moving average, currently at $48,312, which could stall the price rally. Still, there is stronger resistance at $50,966, suggesting that buyers could remain active over the short term.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart ticked higher and is firmly in the overbought zone. Previous overbought signals, however, lasted for three months before a significant sell-off in price.
ETHDubai: Event for developers and other connected or interested in Ethereum.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia building permits (MoM/YoY Feb.)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): China NBS manufacturing purchasing managers index (March)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): China non-manufacturing PMI (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Rep. Stephen Lynch on Bill to Develop Digital Dollar, Axie Infinity’s $625M Hack and More
Massachusetts Congressman Stephen Lynch (D) joined ""First Mover"" to explain the ""ECASH"" bill and the significance of developing a U.S. digital dollar. Axie Infinity’s Ronin Network suffered what may be the largest exploit in DeFi history. Tether and WAX co-founder William Quigley shared his take on this heist. Plus, Charlotte Principato of Morning Consult provided markets analysis.
Inside the Ukrainian Crypto Startup Waging Cyberwar on Russia: Hacken helps crypto businesses with cybersecurity. Now, with the war at home, it’s also leading a guerrilla offensive against the Russian internet.
So You’ve Stolen $600M. Now What?: After one of the largest exploits in DeFi history, the hacker of Axie’s Ronin Network has limited options.
Bitcoin Holds Steady as Luna Foundation Guard Resumes Purchases: The organization, which splurged on the cryptocurrency last week, resumed buying BTC on Wednesday after a one-day hiatus, according to one observer.
A16z, FTX and Sequoia Lead $135M Round for LayerZero at $1B Valuation: The blockchain interoperability protocol first emerged from stealth in September.
EU's MiCA Bill to Enter Next Phase of Negotiations on Thursday: The landmark Markets in Crypto Assets legislative framework will now be discussed between the European Parliament, Council and Commission.
Chris Larsen’s Plan to Greenify Bitcoin: Risky, Impractical and Maybe Nonsensical: As he strides away from the wreckage of Ripple, bags full to bursting, Larsen thinks he knows what’s best for the coin he failed to replace.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Ripple and the XRP Cryptocurrency?
Other voices: Ronin Network: What a $600m hack says about the state of crypto (BBC)
""Like everything else in the internet age, [central bank digital currencies] are about big data: State-run ledgers would give near-complete insight into how money is being spent in a country. In fact, Agustin Carstens, general manager of the 'central bank of central banks,' the Bank for International Settlements, said: 'We don’t know who’s using a $100 bill today and we don’t know who’s using a 1,000 peso bill today.' With CBDCs, that would be possible, he noted."" (CoinDesk Assistant Opinion Editor Daniel Kuhn) ... ""But the reaction to Larsen’s effort among industry leaders and observers has been disbelief and suspicion. That’s in part because, however warm and fuzzy Larsen’s goal seems to be, the campaign’s recommendations are extremely risky, thoroughly impractical and perhaps even nonsensical. More importantly, Larsen’s motives for the proposal are extremely suspect: After all, as a co-founder of Ripple, he has arguably spent the last decade in competition with Bitcoin."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""The dispute over natural gas comes as prices of energy, food and other staples rise across the continent as the war rages, snarling supply chains that were already under strain from the pandemic. On Wednesday, both Germany – the largest economy in Europe – and Spain reported inflation levels in March that touched on 40-year highs."" (The New York Times)"
48,1034,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/03/30/so-youve-stolen-600m-now-what/,So You’ve Stolen $600M. Now What?,"After one of the largest exploits in DeFi history, the hacker of Axie’s Ronin network has limited options.",2022-03-30,"The crypto community was rocked Tuesday by what is solidly among the largest hacks in Web 3 history: a $625 million exploit that drained funds from Ronin, the blockchain that is home to the wildly popular Axie Infinity play-to-earn game.
Despite the eye-watering sum, however, experts told CoinDesk in a series of interviews that it’s unlikely the attacker will ever get to enjoy their ill-gotten gains.
On Tuesday, Axie developer Sky Mavis announced in a blog post that the exploit resulted in losses of over 173,000 ETH and 25.5 million USDC, worth more than $625 million at the time of publication.
Read more: Axie Infinity’s Ronin Network Suffers $625M Exploit
Immediately after the attack, however, observers noted that the hacker used centralized exchanges to fund the address that launched the attack, and that they have been depositing thousands of ETH to exchanges including Huobi, FTX and Crypto.com – a move that many security experts have characterized as a likely misstep.
Because these platforms have know-your-customer (KYC) verification systems, these deposits could be used to discover the hacker’s identity and ultimately force them to return the funds.
“If I was in their shoes, I would seek to get out of this situation as quickly as possible,” blockchain analytics firm Elliptic co-founder Tom Robinson told CoinDesk. “That might include returning the funds.”
The attacker’s current method of trying to launder funds through centralized exchanges struck a range of experts across the industry as odd.
“It’s unusual to see such direct flows of funds from thefts to large exchanges,” Robinson said. “They might have purchased accounts, or they could be using an intermediary to launder on their behalf.”
In an exclusive from October, CoinDesk found that there is a flourishing black market for KYC’d accounts at centralized exchanges. However, Robinson noted that the exchanges being used, including FTX and Crypto.com, have strong reputations for regulatory compliance and KYC.
In all, he characterized the attacker’s current efforts to launder their funds as “surprisingly naive.”
“That doesn’t quite match with the sophistication that it would seemingly require to compromise these validators and get their private keys,” he added.
how tf do you steal $600m and send to a cex bruh 💀
A more common strategy from exploiters is to use a mixer like Tornado Cash, send stolen funds through non-KYC’d exchanges and generally “not rushing to cash out everything straight away, maybe waiting years even,” said Robinson.
Indeed, the broader crypto community has expressed befuddlement at the attacker’s laundering strategy.
As is often the case in the aftermath of an attack, Ethereum users have been using the network to communicate with the attacker, and in one case an individual has attempted to give the attacker tips for how to better launder their ETH.
“Hello, [your] initial deposit was from Binance, be careful and be sure to use tornado.cash you must leave the funds in for multiple days or it can be traced,” they wrote to the attacker’s address as part of an Ethereum transaction. “Afterwards you should use stealthex.io to swap to other currencies over a long period of time. Thanks, feel free to tip / retire me.”
However, even with rigorous privacy-preserving tools and a careful plan, Robinson told CoinDesk it’s extraordinarily difficult to launder a sum as large as $600 million. Indeed, despite the alleged launderers taking a number of precautions over a period of years, U.S. officials seized $3.6 billion in bitcoin related to the 2016 Bitfinex hack just last month.
If Axie does have information on the attacker, identifying hackers has proven to be a successful tactic for developers in the past.
When reached by CoinDesk, blockchain sleuthing firm Chainalysis declined to comment, citing involvement in the ongoing investigation.
Last September, in one of the most colorful hacking incidents in blockchain history, developers of the Jay Pegs Auto Mart non-fungible token (NFT) drop successfully intimidated a hacker into returning funds by – among other tactics – ordering miso soup to their house.
Read more: $3M Was Stolen, but the Real Steal Is These Kia Sedonas, Say Anonymous Developers
Former Sushi Chief Technology Officer Joseph Delong, who was involved with the Jay Pegs negotiations, said that identifying a hacker can help “prevent an anonymous getaway” and will increase public pressure.
“People will get angry at you doxxing the attacker but those cryptoanarchists can go f**k themselves with their superiority complex,” Delong said in a Tuesday interview.
“Laundering $600 million, I don’t think it’s possible,” said Adrian Hetman, a DeFi expert at Immunefi, a bug bounty service. “The best-case scenario is instead of black-hatting your way into the protocol, you should use that knowledge to submit bugs on a bug bounty platform – you could easily become a millionaire.”
Sushi’s Delong also noted that giving the hacker options can be a useful tool, such as a “clear bounty program and partners like Immunefi to help.”
Indeed, Immunefi is among the slew of services that have emerged as DeFi and Web 3 look to secure the ecosystem from the rising tides of hacks. Immunefi alone has paid out $20 million in bug bounties, and currently has $120 million available for white hats, coding lingo for the benevolent opposite of black-hat hackers who abscond with stolen funds rather than reporting vulnerabilities.
History shows that attempting to steal and launder $625 million may have been the lowest-upside option for the attacker. Last August the hacker who managed to swipe $611 million from Poly Network ultimately returned the funds after deciding it would be impossible to cash out.
“I think either he gets caught, or he’s forced to return the funds. Or both,” said Hetman of the Ronin hacker.
In a worst-case scenario for Axie Infinity, however, the exploiter might not even care about the money at all.
“I think that – fundamentally – the ideology of the exploiter is the key thing to consider when you’re talking about GDP-sized figures acquired through hacks,” said Laurence E. Day, a blockchain developer and scholar. “If they’ve simply done it to send a message about vulnerability or ‘because-they-could, consequences be damned,’ the question ‘was it worth it’ depends on whether they consider that sufficient self-validation as to their skill.”
Day is intimately familiar with hackers looking to send a message. Last October, a protocol Day contributed to, Indexed Finance, was exploited by a Canadian teenage math prodigy, Andean “Andy” Medjedovic.
Read more: After ‘Stealing’ $16M, This Teen Hacker Seems Intent on Testing ‘Code Is Law’ in the Courts
Despite the team doxing Medjedovic and taking the case to court, the Canadian graduate student has thus far refused to return the funds. In a series of tweets from an account claiming to belong to Medjedovic, he framed the confrontation as a “duel” and a “fight to the death.”
While Medjedovic is currently a fugitive from the law, the incident has earned him significant notoriety, which may have been his primary motivation.
However, Day noted that if the Ronin hacker is interested in fame rather than money, even that end-goal currently appears to be a losing game: They may never be able to claim responsibility without getting caught.
“We’ve seen time and again that ego is the downfall of the people that pull off exploits, and I imagine it’d be quite hard to never be able to own up to it in the same way that negotiating a white-hat bounty and becoming a god in the eyes of the community would allow you to,” said Day.
Gaming-focused Ronin on Tuesday disclosed a loss of more than $625 million in USDC and ether.
Concerns around emissions of an in-game token caused falling user numbers and a drastic plunge in SLP prices.
The token was trading around $3.75 after launching."
49,1191,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/30/defiance-capital-delphi-digital-co-lead-6m-round-for-crypto-raiders-game/,"DeFiance Capital, Delphi Digital Co-Lead $6M Round for ‘Crypto Raiders’ NFT Game",The makers of the Polygon-based role-playing game prefer the term “play-to-own” over “play-to-earn.”,2022-03-30,"Crypto Raiders, a non-fungible token (NFT) role-playing game (RPG) built on the Polygon blockchain, announced a $6 million funding round on Wednesday co-led by crypto investment firm DeFiance Capital and research firm Delphi Digital. Metaverse ecosystem GuildFi, Merit Circle and Yield Guild Games also participated.
The funding will help the company aggressively scale the team, which currently stands at over 20, and invest in NFTs.
“A lot of NFT companies out there need to continually create and sell more NFTs to generate revenue. But with this funding, for the next two to three years, we can let all of the NFTs in our ecosystem be earned or obtained by players without us having to charge for them,” Nicholas Kneuper, Crypto Raiders CEO and co-founder, told CoinDesk in an interview.
The Crypto Raiders fundraise adds to rising interest in blockchain gaming. Last month, crypto exchange giant FTX launched its own gaming unit and quickly announced its first acquisition.
Crypto Raiders came to life last year when Knueper and co-founders David Titarenco and Matt Powell saw an RPG-shaped gap in the NFT gaming market.
The art in Crypto Raiders has a retro look and the gameplay is meant to evoke RPG classics like RuneScape and World of Warcraft. Players go into dungeons, fight enemies, search for better loot and work to level up their character. Players can go to battle in player-versus-player (PVP).
Read more: Animoca Brands, Ubisoft Invest in $12M Round for Blockchain Game 'Cross the Ages'
Crypto Raiders players can buy, sell and trade in-game assets, a hallmark of play-to-earn games. However, the company prefers the term “play-to-own” since it emphasizes the ownership aspect rather than the potential financial transaction.
“To us, [play-to-earn] really sounds like a job more than a game. We’re trying to build something that true gamers are going to love and enjoy,” Kneuper continued.
“We’re in the process of porting our game engine over to Unity, and that’s going to be a big upgrade, especially in terms of our developing more quickly,” said Kneuper, referring to a game engine owned by Epic Games that’s widely used in the industry.
In the next two weeks, Crypto Raiders will add features to the game so that players can bring different abilities into battles. There will also be an energy system to force players to decide whether or not to use energy-intensive abilities.
The in-game auction house will launch in the coming months for players to sell their gear. Crypto Raiders has plans to expand the farming side of the game, such as collecting herbalism supplies to craft potions or ore to forge weapons.
“Crypto Raiders has taken an innovative path in building a Web3 dungeon crawler and RPG experience that players truly enjoy while also providing avenues for players to ‘play-to-own’,” said Ryan Foo, game economist from Delphi Ventures, in a press release."
50,1198,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/03/31/the-uk-wants-to-regulate-crypto-heres-what-that-could-look-like/,The UK Wants to Regulate Crypto: Here's What That Could Look Like,Subtitle not found,2022-03-31,"The United Kingdom is set to create a broad regulatory framework detailing how cryptocurrency businesses can set up shop and operate in the country.
The U.K. Treasury is due to unveil a package for regulating crypto in the coming weeks. Many in the crypto community welcome such a plan, hoping the U.K. will take a similar approach to what the U.S. and European Union have done.
CNBC first reported the U.K.'s plan to regulate crypto earlier this week.
""Of course reducing financial risk for crypto holders is important, but we hope it does not become over-regulated,” Humayun Sheikh, CEO of artificial intelligence platform Fetch.ai, wrote in an email to CoinDesk. “We look forward to how the regulations plan to address the current opportunities and challenges.""
The U.K. is the latest jurisdiction to speed up efforts to regulate the industry in a comprehensive way in the face of the rising adoption of cryptocurrencies.
The country is a leading decentralized finance (DeFi) spot in Europe in terms of adoption. Crypto investors poured $170 billion into DeFi platforms between June 2020 and July 2021, the most in Europe during that period, according to a Chainalysis report.
In February, the Treasury released a report saying that the U.K. needed to “act quickly” to preserve its position as a crypto hub by having a new framework to regulate crypto.
The report said that the framework should be similar to the European Union’s (EU) Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA) package that is making its way through the bloc’s legislative process. The report also said that the Treasury’s regulatory framework should be a functional and technology-neutral approach that would be in line with current regulations and that would factor in crypto risks.
“MiCA negotiations may be finished by the middle of 2022, meaning the U.K. must quickly choose how closely it replicates or diverges from MiCA,” Nicholas du Cros, head of compliance and regulatory affairs at CoinShares, a leading digital asset management firm in Europe, said in an email to CoinDesk.
The MiCA bill, which is meant to be applicable to all 27 EU nations, has a heavy focus on stablecoins.
MiCA defines three subcategories of crypto assets, including the following: asset-referenced tokens, which are stablecoins like Facebook’s now-canceled project Libra that were designed to be backed by a basket of currencies; e-money tokens, which are stablecoins pegged to a fiat currency; and utility tokens, which are intended to provide access to a good or service and are accepted only by their issuers.
Issuers of those kinds of cryptos in the EU must, in the future, publish a white paper.
Meanwhile, firms that provide any service related to the defined crypto assets must obtain approval from regulatory authorities in an EU country. Once they have approval from one local authority and are in accordance with the EU regulations, they can operate anywhere in the EU.
MiCA doesn’t apply to digital currencies issued by central banks or security tokens like securities, deposits, treasury bills or derivatives.
Read more: Europe’s MiCA Crypto Rules Are Coming Soon. Here’s Why They Matter
According to CNBC, the U.K. crypto regulations would likely focus on stablecoins, something the government has been consulting on since the Treasury’s March 2020 budget prioritized the issue.
“Measures are likely to include prior authorization for issuers to operate, capital and liquidity requirements as well as auditing and accounting requirements including the obligation to have sufficient reserves held in high-quality liquid assets,” Ryan Shea, a crypto economist at Trakx, a U.K.-based digital-assets company, said in an email to CoinDesk.
“These additional requirements, on top of standard KYC/AML requirements, increase the regulatory burden and will naturally favor larger crypto firms who have the infrastructure and financial resources to satisfy these demands,” Shea said, referring to know-your-customer and anti-money-laundering requirements.
A parallel can be drawn with U.S. President Joe Biden’s recent executive order, du Cross said. In early March, Biden encouraged federal agencies to coordinate their approach to the crypto sector.
The U.K. already set up a joint crypto asset task force in 2018 that consisted of senior representatives from top U.K. regulators, including the Bank of England, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Treasury.
The U.K. doesn’t consider crypto as a currency or commodity, and has been regulating the crypto industry in different ways.
The FCA became the U.K.'s regulator for anti-money laundering and countering financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) in 2020, and more than 100 firms have registered to be supervised by the regulator since then. Firms waiting for approval by the FCA were put on its “Temporary Registration Regime” (TRR), which enabled them to do business until April 1.
A small number of firms will be allowed to have temporary registration, beyond that date, the FCA said.
Read more: Crypto Firms Weigh Options as UK Registration Deadline Looms
The FCA also announced in 2018 that cryptocurrency derivatives are capable of being financial instruments under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MIFID II) and must comply with the regulator's rules for such products.
In 2019, it also published its “Guidance on Crypto Assets,” which set out three other ways crypto could be regulated. Crypto regarded as utility tokens that grant access to prospective products or services in the U.K. can be regulated under e-money regulations. Crypto firms with digital assets for cross-border payments could be subject to payments services regulations, but the tokens themselves wouldn’t be regulated.
The Treasury announced in January that crypto adverts will be subject to FCA rules. Meanwhile, the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) has been clamping down on crypto ads to make sure they comply with current regulations and don’t mislead consumers.
What the U.K. really seems to be missing are ways to regulate cryptocurrencies themselves.
""I think the real unregulated aspects [in the U.K.] are other crypto assets, especially cryptocurrencies like bitcoin or ethereum,"" Patrick Gruhn, head of FTX Europe, which has been considering expanding to the U.K., said in an interview with CoinDesk.
The answer to what is next also partly depends on what crypto companies and trade groups have pushed to the U.K. Treasury. The Treasury has been in discussions with a number of firms, including the Gemini exchange and crypto trade groups, CNBC reported.
The U.K. Treasury didn’t respond to a request for comment."
51,1195,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/06/binanceus-raises-first-funding-round-at-45b-valuation/,Binance.US Raises First Funding Round at $4.5B Valuation,"The $200 million fundraise will be used to ramp up marketing ahead of a public listing in “the next two to three years,” a spokesperson said.",2022-04-06,"Binance.US, the American arm of the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume, has raised over $200 million in its first external funding round at a pre-money valuation of $4.5 billion.
Investors in the seed round were a mix of early stage venture capitalists and crypto-native firms, including RRE Ventures, Foundation Capital, Original Capital, VanEck and Circle Ventures, among others.
“Binance.US intends to go public in the next two to three years at a time that we deem is right for the business,” a company spokesperson told CoinDesk via email.
Launched in 2019, the exchange offers more than 85 tokens and 190 trading pairs for retail and institutional traders.
According to a press release, Binance.US will use the new capital to enhance its spot trading platform, develop of a new suite of products and fund marketing and education initiatives.
In November, Changpeng Zhao, the founder of the exchange’s parent company, said Binance.US was raising a “couple hundred million” in a funding round that would “close in about a month or two.”
The valuation for Binance.US is smaller than some of its local rivals. Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX.US was valued at $8 billion in a $400 million funding round in January.
After receiving regulatory approval in two new states earlier this year, Binance.US is now available in 45 states and eight territories.
Read more: Crypto’s Night at the Grammys"
52,724,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/06/waves-founder-blames-short-sellers-for-its-woes-heres-why-thats-a-red-flag/,Waves Founder Blames Short Sellers for Its Woes. Here's Why That's a Red Flag,"To longtime finance observers, blaming shorts often looks like the last desperate deflection of a project in denial about its failures.",2022-04-06,"A complex and increasingly bitter drama is unfolding at Waves, a layer 1, or base, smart-contract blockchain.
The system, an Ethereum analog with smart contract and decentralized finance (DeFi) functionality, has seen extreme price volatility in its eponymous native token over the past few days, while its algorithmic stablecoin, neutrino USD (USDN), has dramatically broken its dollar peg. The neutrino stablecoin is widely considered the main utility of the Waves blockchain, so the broken peg threatens the entire system.
The causes for that chaos are disputed, but what’s most notable is the Waves team’s seemingly unprecedented response.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in crypto news. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Arguing that short sellers are fueling the chaos, founder Sasha Ivanov is championing a proposed system change that would make it impossible to borrow large amounts of WAVES tokens through the system’s primary decentralized exchange (DEX), Vires Finance.
Because WAVES is a relatively thinly traded asset of little interest to institutions like hedge funds, traders tell CoinDesk that it is nearly impossible to borrow outside of Vires Finance. Borrowing an asset is essential to shorting, or betting its price will fall. So the Waves proposal would in essence make it very difficult or impossible to short the WAVES token.
The decision to publicly blame short sellers for the Waves system’s woes may mark the first time a crypto project has pursued the same rhetorical strategy as a long list of troubled, traditional, publicly traded companies.
Many companies that attack short sellers ultimately turn out to be engaged in fraud, with my favorite recent example being Nikola, a supposed electric vehicle manufacturer that briefly threatened to sue short sellers before ultimately admitting to having faked its product demo.
More famously, Enron CEO Ken Lay blamed short sellers for the company’s problems in statements made in 2006 – while he was on trial for overseeing the biggest corporate fraud in history. To longtime finance observers, blaming shorts often comes across as the last desperate deflection of a project in denial about its own failure.
Anti-short rhetoric is common among unstable or dishonest projects because, in reality, shorts are structurally incentivized to only attack for very good reasons. In part that’s because shorting is extremely high risk, with potentially uncapped losses if the value of an asset being shorted goes up instead of down. It’s not something that any serious trader or fund does lightly, and often it’s a move made by traders who think they see something the rest of the market does not.
That means shorts often engage in public campaigns to spread awareness about their “short thesis,” or the reason they believe an asset will fall. This casts a different light on Ivanov’s allegations of a “FUD campaign” organized by Alameda Research, a sister company of the FTX exchange. Even taken at face value, a public short campaign by a firm as serious as Alameda would be a sell signal to any sane trader, and not mere “fear, uncertainty and doubt.”
Get your popcorn ready: @AlamedaResearch manipulates $waves price and organizes FUD campaigns to trigger panic selling.

I hope I caught your attention. Follow me.
But it’s not actually clear that Alameda is engaging in a WAVES short on its own account, much less a public campaign around it. On Twitter, Ivanov claimed that a $30 million borrowing of WAVES through Vires can be linked back to Alameda. A representative for Vires declined to clarify the source of that information, and some have argued the move amounts to Ivanov doxing a user.
Meanwhile, some believe these loans may represent borrowing on behalf of Alameda clients rather than the firm’s proprietary trades. Alameda founder, and FTX CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried on Twitter dismissed allegations of a coordinated “FUD” publicity campaign as an “obv bulls**t conspiracy theory.” Alameda declined to confirm or deny to CoinDesk whether it has or had a short position in WAVES.
A short against WAVES would not be a particularly surprising or personally motivated move by any trading firm. In the days leading up to the current drama, there was an increasing drumbeat of criticism of specific financial decisions made by the Waves team, and clear-eyed predictions of the token’s crash.
On March 31, a pseudonymous Twitter user known as 0xHamz called Waves “the biggest [P]onzi in crypto,” claiming the Waves team was printing its neutrino stablecoin and using it to artificially pump the WAVES token. At that point, WAVES had just seen a massive and sharp price spike, nearly doubling in value. But 0xHamz predicted that the consequence of the moves would be a crash of the WAVES token and a depegging of the USDN stablecoin.
That proved wildly prescient. The neutrino stablecoin has dropped as low as 76 cents on the dollar in the days since, before rebounding to 91 cents Wednesday morning. The issuance of neutrino is one of the primary use cases of the WAVES network and token, with nearly $1 billion of the stablecoin in circulation against WAVES’ $2.7 billion market cap. That could make the de-pegging of USDN an existential threat for the entire Waves ecosystem, and the WAVES token itself has crashed back below its pre-pump level.
Read more: Waves' USDN Stablecoin Loses Peg, Drops 15% Amid Manipulation Scare
0xHamz also made the far more serious allegation, based on blockchain data, that Ivanov personally moved a massive $300 million pile of WAVES tokens to Binance, saying the move “could be an imminent dump.” In a Twitter Space organized by Waves on April 5, 0xHamz was invited to discuss his allegations directly with Ivanov.
Ivanov declined to publicly refute the claims that he is dumping WAVES tokens, instead arguing that 0xHamz was not a real person and making vague threats against the critic. “What you do is bullshit. You're a troll ... Maybe your voice is generated by AI, I don’t know,” said Ivanov. “I would be happy to meet somewhere and discuss in private. I can show you everything, my friend, and you don’t do your homework at all. What you do is crap. It’s baseless accusations.
""And if you’re a real person, my friend you can actually have some legal problems. So I suggest you think [about] what you do.”
This sort of menacing language from corporate or crypto leaders is often a gigantic red flag. Founders so emotionally fragile they resort to threatening critics rather than addressing their questions are not reliable stewards – a realization that apparently came to Ivanov a few minutes later when he insisted that “I am not making threats.”
Despite the surrounding drama, the proposal to cut off short sellers remains the most interesting part of the story. The proposal, which Ivanov has endorsed, opened for voting on April 5 and will run until April 10.
Currently, the proposal is barely passing. Many responses have argued that it is at best contrary to the spirit of crypto because it forecloses legitimate economic activity. And while blocking short sellers could boost the price of WAVES in the short term, experts say the proposal is likely to prove damaging to WAVES over the long term.
According to Jeff Dorman at crypto asset management firm Arca, the chaos may have already increased short pressure rather than easing it. Institutions and hedge funds uninterested in holding WAVES on its merits, he says, “are all probably scrambling right now to find a WAVES holder to get a borrow from [to enable shorting], but they are likely unsuccessful in doing so. The negative funding rate [for WAVES] on FTX, for example, is indicative of how little borrow there is, as those who want to short have resorted to selling perpetual futures.”
In other words, it’s so hard to find actual WAVES tokens to sell short that bears are willing to pay up for derivative contracts that would profit from the asset’s eventual fall.
Putting up a shield against shorts would further limit such activity, but it’s by no means a sure win for WAVES.
“Messing with free markets also has other long-term consequences, including reducing liquidity,” Dorman says. That “would make long-term holders more concerned [and] could negatively impact [WAVES’s] price.""
Update 4/6/2021: We have expanded and revised quotes taken from the WAVES space on April 5."
53,1035,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/06/near-protocol-raises-350m/,Near Protocol Raises $350M,It’s Near’s second nine-figure raise this year.,2022-04-06,"Near Protocol said Wednesday it raised $350 million in a funding round led by hedge fund Tiger Global in a bid to “accelerate the decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem.” The raise comes less than three months after Near announced a $150 million funding round.
The price of the NEAR token started inching up on the news, trading at $15.82 as of press time.
Crypto-native investors in the new round included Republic Capital, FTX Ventures, Hashed and Dragonfly Capital, among others.
New York-based Tiger Global had $86 billion in assets under management at the end of last year and has a growing footprint in crypto investments, having backed funding rounds for blockchain infrastructure platform Blockdaemon, crypto exchange FTX, payment processor Moonpay and blockchain intelligence provider TRM Labs, among others.
Since its October 2020 mainnet launch, Near has focused on creating a user-friendly platform for developers of decentralized applications (dapps). The speedy proof-of-stake blockchain is meant to serve as an alternative to Ethereum, which has scalability issues that can cause transaction fees to spike.
The increasingly cash-rich Near ecosystem has benefited projects building on the blockchain. Last October, Near’s Aurora raised $12 million to bring Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) compatibility to the network.
Read more: Electric Capital Leads $4.5M Investment in Near Exchange Trisolaris"
54,1199,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/06/first-mover-asia-south-koreas-kimchi-premium-evaporates-major-cryptos-tumble-on-fed-minutes-continued-global-uncertainty/,"First Mover Asia: South Korea's 'Kimchi Premium' Evaporates; Major Cryptos Tumble on Fed Minutes, Continued Global Uncertainty",The gap between bitcoin prices on Korean crypto exchanges and global counterparts has declined from 20% to about 3% over the past year; bitcoin and ether tumbled.,2022-04-06,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos fell significantly amid continued macroeconomic turmoil and new evidence of the U.S. Federal Reserve's move to hawkishness.
Insights: South Korea's ""kimchi premium"" has largely evaporated, although the country's climate for crypto has been favorable lately.
Technician's take: BTC broke below a month-long uptrend, but the broad recovery off January lows remains intact.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $43,723 -4.8%
Ether (ETH): $3,216 -6.8%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin, other cryptos slide
Crypto and equity markets haven't always been in step in recent months.
But on Wednesday they were, following another day of macroeconomic turmoil stemming from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and fresh evidence of the U.S. central bank's transformation into a monetary hawk.
Bitcoin (BTC) was recently trading below $44,000, where it dropped earlier in the day less than a week after soaring over $47,000. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was off nearly 5%. Ether (ETH), the second-largest crypto by market cap, fell on even harder times, tumbling almost 7% to change hands just above $3,200.
All major altcoins in the CoinDesk top 20 by market cap, were even further in the red with SOL down over 10% and ADA and DOT each down about 8% at certain points. The meme coins DOGE and SHIB were off about 12% and 9%, respectively.
Meanwhile, U.S. equity markets fell, with the Nasdaq off 2.2%, following the release of minutes from the Federal Reserve's March meeting in which governors discussed raising interest rates in half-point increments. Fed Chair Jerome Powell last week broached the possibility of a half-point hike as a way to tamp down inflation, which at nearly 8% has hit a four-decade high and could potentially increase as the conflict in Ukraine rages, sabotaging energy prices and global supply chains.
Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of energy prices, continued trading over $101 per barrel, a massive increase over the start of the year when it was priced at under $80 per barrel.
The U.S. and other countries that have criticized Russia's aggression took steps to impose full sanctions against Russia's largest financial services companies, including Sberbank, the country's largest financial institution. The countries had previously only imposed partial sanctions on the companies. Sberbank, which holds about one-third of Russia's assets, will now lack any contact with the U.S. banking system.
The sanctions are meant to cripple the Russian economy, which has been able to make debt payments from revenue it receives from energy sales and through limited access to foreign banking. The U.S. has urged European Union countries to ban the Russian oil and gas imports, upon which they are heavily dependent.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Scott Freeman, co-founder and partner of financial services firm JST Capital, suggested the global unrest was hurting bitcoin's price, despite major buys over the past 10 days by Terra's Luna Foundation and MicroStrategy (MSTR), which purchased over $190 million in the crypto this week. ""It's hard to lay a finger on the movement of bitcoin right now,"" Freeman said. ""At the end of the day, we believe there are business macro themes in the environment where people are just not looking to put risk-on right now. People look for opportunities to sell and to profit.""
But, Freeman added: ""We think, longer term, bitcoin and crypto are really good places to put some percentage of your portfolio.""
S&P 500: 4,481 -0.9%
DJIA: 34,496 -0.4%
Nasdaq: 13,888 -2.2%
Gold: $1,925 +0.2%
Bitcoin's kimchi premium evaporates
Bitcoin traded at a discount of 3.2% relative to the U.S. dollar on South Korean markets last week after the launch of new crypto regulations, crypto market data firm Kaiko noted.
That's a market shift from prior years, when South Korea’s unique regulatory framework, which restricts cross-border capital transfers for foreigners, led to a “kimchi premium'' – a gap between bitcoin prices on Korean crypto exchanges compared with global counterparts. Bitcoin traded at over 20% higher at one point last year. The premium also reflects local market demand.
However, for the first time in years this premium has turned into a discount as traders anticipated the adoption of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) ""travel rule,"" Kaiko said.
The rule requires crypto service providers to collect and disclose customer information for all transactions above a particular threshold.
The Kimchi premium's recent flip to a discount might mark the end – for now anyway – of an iconic crypto arbitrage trade, one that several traders and firms, including FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, exploited in its heyday.
Crypto in South Korea has been riding favorable winds lately.
Last week, The Korean Herald reported that SK Square, the investment arm of South Korean conglomerate SK Group, would spend 2 trillion won (US$1.6 billion) in the next three years on semiconductors and blockchain.
SK Square's CEO and Vice Chairman Park Jung-ho noted the ""high growth potential"" of ""chips and blockchain,"" in comments to the newspaper. Rising demand for chips and other components that enable blockchain platforms are a sometimes overlooked benefit of the industry's rapid growth.
Separately, SK Square, part of the SK Group behemoth of 95 separate companies, has established a task force to launch what would be the first token of its kind by a South Korean top 10 conglomerate, often called a chaebol.
The country's newly elected president has promised crypto-friendly policies that include legal measures to confiscate crypto profits gained through illegitimate means and to ensure their return to victims.
Bitcoin Extends Pullback Toward $40K-$43K Support
Bitcoin (BTC) remains in pullback mode after failing to break above the $48,000 resistance level last week.
BTC was down by as much as 4% over the past 24 hours, which is less than some popular alternative cryptocurrencies (altcoins), indicating a lower appetite for risk among crypto traders.
On intraday charts, BTC broke below a month-long uptrend. That means short-term sellers are in control, especially after the breakout level around $45,000 was rejected on Tuesday.
Recent breakdowns on the charts have confirmed negative momentum signals, although pullbacks appear to be limited. For now, the broader recovery from January lows remains intact.
Bitcoin 2022 conference Miami
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia imports/exports (MoM/Feb.)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan leading economic index (Feb. preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Treasury Secretary Yellen to Deliver First Crypto Speech, Musk’s Twitter Board Appointment and More
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will deliver her first official speech to focus on digital assets Thursday. Prior to Yellen's remarks, James Czerniawski of Americans for Prosperity joined ""First Mover"" to share his thoughts on what Yellen would address. Plus, Scott Freeman of JST Capital and insights provided crypto markets analysis and Macro Hive's Bilaf Hafeez discussed Elon Musk's Twitter board appointment.
HSBC Starts Metaverse Fund for Private Banking Clients in Asia: The Metaverse Discretionary Strategy portfolio aims to capture opportunities arising from the next iteration of the internet, the bank said.
Block Notifies 8.2M Customers After Breach of Cash App Investings: A former employee improperly accessed reports related to U.S. customer accounts. The reports did not contain personally identifiable information.
Near Protocol Raises $350M: It’s Near’s second nine-figure raise this year.
Luna Foundation Guard Adds Nearly $230M of Bitcoin to Stack: The foundation now has bigger exposure to bitcoin than the U.S. electric-car maker Tesla.
Dogecoin Rallies Again After Elon Musk Joins Twitter Board: The news comes one day after the Tesla CEO disclosed his ownership of 9.2% of Twitter, making him the company’s largest individual shareholder.
The Bigger Problem With Axie Infinity: The $620 million Ronin exploit isn't the half of it; play-to-earn ain't free.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Other voices: Mark Cuban is ‘very bullish’ on the upcoming Ethereum ‘merge.’ Here’s why he says the upgrade is so important for the cryptocurrency
""The Treasury spokeswoman said the action taken this week would create additional challenges for Russia’s financial system. The Russian government has already imposed capital controls restricting the flow of money in and out of the country."" (The New York Times) ... ""It is imperative that each and every participant in the U.S. crypto market let their voice be heard. The [Securities and Exchange Commission] is accepting comments on its proposal through April 18 and cannot finalize the rule until each and every concern is considered and addressed. And concerns abound."" (ConsenSys lawyer Bill Hughes, for CoinDesk) ... ""The money-transfer service boomed during the [COVID-19] pandemic, when people avoided ATMs and replaced cash and checks with digital money transfers. Zelle recorded some 1.8 billion transactions in 2021 totaling $490 billion, both more than double their pre-pandemic levels."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""If you have a group of people that hold the same token, what can they do? They can move anywhere, both physically [in real life] and online URL. So what a really savvy brand can do is say, “Okay, cool, here's my community, here's my customer base."" The best strategy is actually not to sell NFTs. It's to give them away for free. Give them away, and put them in the hands of your best customers."" (Jump founder Jeff Kauffman)
UPDATE (April 7, 14:49 UTC) – Corrects that Janet Yellen's first address on crypto will be Thursday and did not take place Wednesday."
55,1197,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/07/dogecoin-solana-traders-nurse-big-losses-as-cryptos-see-400m-in-liquidations/,"Dogecoin, Solana Traders Nurse Big Losses as Cryptos See $400M in Liquidations",Wednesday's figures were the third-highest liquidation losses of this year.,2022-04-07,"Traders of crypto futures lost over $400 million on Wednesday as most cryptocurrencies dropped below support levels following hawkish comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve.
Wednesday’s figures were the third-highest of 2022 following nearly a billion dollars worth of losses stemming from liquidations on Jan. 21 and $470 million on Jan. 22. Bitcoin (BTC) fell to $42,500 from $47,000 at the time.
Liquidations occur when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position as a safety mechanism due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. This happens primarily in futures trading, which only tracks asset prices, as opposed to spot trading, where traders own the actual assets.
Read More: What is Solana?
Futures tracking Solana’s SOL and Dogecoin’s DOGE saw a combined $40 million in liquidation losses, the most among major cryptocurrencies outside of bitcoin and ether (ETH). Meanwhile, GMT tokens of the month-old crypto project StepN were an unusual entrant on the list with $9 million in recorded losses.
Both DOGE and GMT were among the top gainers in the past week. DOGE prices were buoyed amid speculation that Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s appointment to the Twitter board would be a positive catalyst for dogecoin’s growth, while Stepn gained popularity among traders for its unique step-to-earn approach.
Bitcoin futures racked up $92 million in losses, the most among all cryptocurrencies, followed by ether futures at $64 million. The losses continued in Asian hours on Thursday, with over $40 million in liquidations already recorded at writing time.
Data from tracking tool Coinglass show most liquidations took place on crypto exchange Binance, with over $133 million in losses. Traders on OKX and FTX saw the next highest losses with $100 million and $68 million respectively.
Some 83% of all traders were long, or betting on higher crypto prices, following a bitcoin drop to support at $45,000 on Wednesday. However, the asset has lost a further 5% since then and trades at $43,500 at writing time."
56,894,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/14/sam-bankman-fried-the-man-the-hair-the-vision/,"Sam Bankman-Fried: The Man, the Hair, the Vision","SBF is 30 and his company, FTX, is everywhere. He'll be appearing at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.",2022-04-14,"He might now be a billionaire but Samuel Bankman-Fried still has that wild puff of hair. It’s hair that screams “just rolled out of bed.” Or a beanbag chair. “I’m up to something like 50%, in terms of sleeping on beds,” Bankman-Fried tells CoinDesk.
The 50% is a big deal. Beds were once a luxury that Bankman-Fried couldn’t afford. Only a year ago, the former trader spent most nights sleeping under his desk in Hong Kong while launching a then-obscure trading firm. (I called him once at 3:30 a.m. Hong Kong time. He was at the office and happily took my call.) Most Americans had never heard of FTX. Even most bitcoiners had never heard of FTX, an exchange that – at the time – focused on professional trading products like derivatives.
This article is part of Road to Consensus, a series highlighting speakers and the big ideas they will discuss at Consensus 2022, CoinDesk's festival of the year June 9-12 in Austin, Texas. Learn more. The interview originally appeared in the 2021 Most Influential series.
Fast forward one year.
The Miami Heat now play in the FTX Arena. Quarterback Tom Brady and wife Gisele Bündchen star in FTX commercials. During the World Series, you couldn’t miss the FTX signs behind home plate, the countless FTX commercials or the FTX patches on the baseball umpires’ uniforms. FTX became “the official cryptocurrency exchange” of Major League Baseball, as if baseball has used a crypto exchange since the days of Mickey Mantle.
Flush off a $420 million round of fundraising, FTX is now worth an estimated $25 billion, and Bankman-Fried – not yet 30 – is one of the richest and most powerful people on the planet.
That doesn’t seem to have changed the man. He still eats “when it seems appropriate for the given day,” which sometimes means 3 p.m., sometimes 3 a.m. He remains a vegan for humanitarian reasons (“it’s all for animal welfare”), and he still reaches for his beloved Oreos, “one of nature’s more surprising vegan foods.”
And he’s laser-focused on regulation. Earlier in the year, Bankman-Fried spent five hours a day personally dealing with regulatory issues, and he expects regulation to loom over 2022. “It’s a messy world, and there are 195 countries out there,” he says. “Each one is separately exploring what their regulatory framework will look like. We’re trying to stay abreast of all of them.”
Regulation is what drove FTX to move its headquarters from Hong Kong to the Bahamas, because Bankman-Fried says the islands “have a comprehensive regulatory framework for crypto, and very few countries have that.”
Bankman-Fried sees over-regulation as the biggest risk to bitcoin (BTC). He views a “hard ban” as unlikely but acknowledges risk in a “soft ban.”
“If we saw coordinated action of restricting access to cryptocurrency projects in the United States and the European Union, that could have a materially bad impact on the market,” the FTX CEO says.
As for regulation in 2022? Bankman-Fried predicts there will “almost certainly” be some type of stablecoin regulation because there’s “a lot of noise around it, and there’s a lot of will for it,” such as periodic audits of what’s backing the tokens. That could have merit. Like the Winklevoss twins, Bankman-Fried views regulation in the U.S. as inevitable and even useful, telling CNN that “the strongest version of the crypto industry is one that does have regulatory oversight.”
Some risks to bitcoin, Bankman-Fried says, have already become less concerning. Exhibit A: the risk of institutional investors fleeing the market. He finds it useful to compare the state of bitcoin today, at the end of 2021, with bitcoin at the end of 2017.
“Going into 2018, there was an enormous amount of excitement,” Bankman-Fried says, as “institutions worldwide were actively trying to decide whether or not to get involved.” Then came the crash. These crypto-curious institutions felt they had dodged a bullet, and they remained on the sidelines. The price of bitcoin languished.
“It ended up taking another two or three years for a number of them to get in,” Bankman-Fried says. He imagines that if a crash had occurred during the summer of 2020, perhaps that would have dissuaded large institutions from entering crypto. But now they are in. The die is cast. “At this point, I think many of them are more committed to it now than they were,” says Bankman-Fried, and he expects more to join the party in 2022. “It would take substantially more negative effects to halt that momentum.”
I was curious what the “negative effects” could mean for FTX itself, particularly given its massive expansion. To the outsider, it seems that FTX spent like a drunken sailor on its advertising spree. And that happened during a throbbing bull run, where everyone looks like a genius. What would happen to FTX if, say, the price of bitcoin plummets?
Bankman-Fried isn’t losing sleep over that, or at least any more sleep than usual. First, and amazingly, he says FTX’s entire endorsement and partnership budget accounts for less than 10% of 2021 revenue, and so it’s “not a huge hit on that front.” If bitcoin crashed to $20,000, theoretically, Bankman-Fried would expect long-term revenue (“or at least medium-term revenue”) to suffer, but he said, “I would be shocked if it went down to a point where we were no longer profitable.”
And even if bitcoin enters a bear market, that fresh round of $420 million gives FTX “a pretty decent firewall of money.” And that firewall could soon become even more “decent” because recent reports indicate that FTX is looking to raise $1.5 billion at a potential valuation of $32 billion.
The son of Stanford Law School professors, Bankman-Fried is a longtime follower of “effective altruism.” That is, trying to make as much money as possible so he can then donate funds in a way that optimizes their impact. In 2020, he performed a rough calculus and determined that his money could serve the greatest good with one simple function: to boot President Donald Trump from the White House. His $5 million donation to the Joe Biden campaign, making him one of the largest donors, is unusual in the libertarian-heavy world of crypto.
“I have given to some Republicans, I’ve given to some Democrats,” Bankman-Fried says diplomatically, then immediately clarifies that “I’ve given more to Democrats at this point.” He cares more about policy than party fealty.
Bankman-Fried seemed appalled, for example, by the Democrats’ proposed tax on billionaires, telling the New York Times’ DealBook, “I think this could cause hugely negative collateral damage, significantly reducing the amount of innovation and taxable base in the first place.”
As for 2024? “It’s hard for me to have a great prediction of that, without knowing who the candidates are going to end up being,” which, intentionally or not, is an almost hilarious low-key swipe at Biden.
Besides, 2024 is a lifetime away, especially in crypto years. By then, we’ll be celebrating New Year’s Eve in midtown Manhattan at the FTX Times Square, we’ll buy our holiday gifts using the FTX cash app and little kids will hope that Santa brings them gifts from the FTX North Pole.
That is all in play. The only safe bet is that Bankman-Fried still won’t have combed his hair."
57,1150,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/14/first-mover-asia-taiwan-chip-manufacturer-tsmc-remains-a-crypto-skeptic-major-cryptos-decline/,First Mover Asia: Taiwan Chip Manufacturer TSMC Remains a Crypto Skeptic; Major Cryptos Decline,"The company, which was burned during the last major crypto bear market, did not mention mining in its last earnings report; bitcoin and ether drop.",2022-04-14,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos decline amid ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty.
Insights: Taiwan chip manufacturer has stayed largely out of the crypto mining fray.
Technician's take: BTC's bullish countertrend signals require weekly price closes above $40K.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $39,875 -3.3%
Ether (ETH): 3,017 -3.3%
Top Gainers
Bitcoin and other cryptos plummet
A day after bitcoin and other major cryptos had their best day since the beginning of the month, they were back in the doldrums as Russia escalated its attacks on the southern and eastern parts of Ukraine, spurring new angst among investors about the global economy.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization dipped below $40,000 during Thursday trading and was recently down over 3% for the past 24 hours. Ether was changing hands at about $3,000, down similarly for the same period. Other major cryptos were solidly in the red. SOL and ADA were both recently off more than 4%. DOGE was a rare bright spot, up over 1.5%.
Crypto prices tracked equity markets, which also sank, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq off 2.1% and the S&P 500 down a percentage point as investors continued to shy away from riskier assets.
Meanwhile, economic fallout from Russia's unprovoked invasion continued to mount.
A day after saying that peace talks with Ukraine had reached a dead end, Russian President Vladimir Putin acknowledged on Thursday that economic sanctions from the U.S. and other countries opposed to Russia's unprovoked aggression were hurting his country's oil and gas industry. European Union countries continued to discuss the possibility of a complete ban on Russian energy products. The price of Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of global energy markets, soared past $111, a roughly 40% gain from the start of the year.
Paul Robinson, strategist at news and research website Daily FX, noted in an email that ""contracting price action"" for bitcoin over the first quarter this year ""could continue to make things even choppier in the near term.""
Given the nature of volatility (expanding/contracting) and the fact that this is BTC, volatility is likely to ramp up again as we head towards the middle of the year,"" Robinson wrote.
""Typically once BTC gets rolling it doesn’t take long to muster a fresh level of market interest,"" he added. ""If we were to see that fail to be the case this time around, then it could mean that BTC is headed for an extended period of sideways price action, or worse.""
S&P 500: 4,392 -1.2%
DJIA: 34,451 -0.3%
Nasdaq: 13,351 -2.1%
Gold: $1,973 -0.1%
Taiwan chipmaker TSMC does not mention crypto mining in its latest earnings
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) posted another record profit for the quarter, hitting the $7 billion mark on continued strong demand for electronics and gadgets.
But absent from TSMC earnings was talk of mining. On the company’s earnings report for revenue by platform you can find categories like smartphone, high-performance computing, internet-of-things (IoT) and automotive, but nothing about crypto mining.
TSMC tends to be secretive when speaking about its customers. As a pure-play semiconductor foundry, the company has to be agnostic. Its engineers will fabricate chips for the fiercest of competitors, like AMD (AMD) and Nvidia (NVDA), so it stays silent on any sort of market commentary.
It wasn’t always this way, though. During the first major bitcoin mining boom of 2017, TSMC specifically called out crypto’s rise and mobile’s decline in a press release for its fourth quarter 2017 earnings.
“Our fourth-quarter business was supported by major mobile product launches and continuing demand for cryptocurrency mining,” said Lora Ho, senior vice president and chief financial officer of TSMC at the time. “Moving into first-quarter 2018, we expect the strong demand for cryptocurrency mining will continue while mobile product seasonality will dampen our business in this quarter. ”
But this being crypto, fortunes fall as quickly as they rise.
As crypto historians know, 2018 was a bear market for crypto, and this was reflected in TSMC’s earnings as the year continued.
By the third quarter, executives were blaming the “further weakening of cryptocurrency mining demand” for missed revenue guidance. By the end of the year, that language had been revised to “a big drop. It's almost a double-digit.”
The 2018 bear market also hit other semiconductor companies hard too. Nvidia said that it had a glut of unsold graphics cards in its inventory, alongside an 18% fall in the company’s stock price shaving $23 billion off its market value, which Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang called the ""post-crypto hangover.""
Fast forward to 2022 and TSMC is still skeptical about crypto’s long-term viability, especially when it’s also dealing with a period of high demand from other customers. It’s understood that TSMC just doesn’t want to allocate its limited fab capacity to businesses that it considers fairweather friends that fluctuate order volume on seasonality – crypto’s notorious bull and bear markets.
And we haven’t even mentioned Bitmain.
In early 2021, prosecutors in Taiwan charged Bitmain with setting up clandestine front companies to poach engineers from TSMC to help it accelerate the development of new business lines and diversify away from crypto.
Given Taiwan and China’s tense political status, the Taiwanese government does not allow Chinese firms to establish research hubs to develop technology for export to China. Chinese firms are allowed to set up branch offices in Taiwan, but they need to be specifically registered with the government and are closely monitored.
TSMC still allows for Bitmain to fabricate chips in its facilities, but TSMC requires the company to attest that its crypto-mining chips don’t violate any of TSMC’s intellectual property. If Bitmain does, the company will be banned and its chips discarded.
So it’s easy to see why TSMC doesn’t prioritize the crypto industry. The company bet big on crypto during the last bull run, and it was burned when the bear market started. Given the continued demand for semiconductors worldwide, there are also plenty of demand elsewhere.
Bitcoin Neutral, Support at $37K and Resistance at $46K
Bitcoin (BTC) continued to bounce around the $40,000 price level this week, indicating uncertainty among market participants.
The cryptocurrency is down by 8% over the past week and slightly positive over the past 30 days. Most technical indicators are neutral, although short-term buyers could remain active between the $35,000-$37,000 support zone, similar to what occurred earlier this year.
Momentum signals, per the MACD indicator, are positive on the weekly chart and negative on the monthly chart. That suggests a period of rangebound price action could persist, albeit with an average price swing of 20%.
On the weekly chart, the 100-week moving average, currently at $35,388, is an important gauge of trend support. Buyers will need to keep BTC above that level in order to sustain the recovery phase.
Still, there is strong resistance at the 40-week moving average (equivalent to 200-days), which at $46,800.
Further, an upside target at $50,966 was within close distance on March 28, although a pullback unfolded, similar to what occurred in September of last year.
For now, bullish countertrend signals will need to be confirmed with weekly price closes above $40,000.
Good Friday holiday
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China house price index (March)
2:45 p.m. HKT/SGT(6:45 a.m. UTC): France consumer price index (EU norm/MoM/YoY March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Elon Musk Offers to Buy Twitter, Bitcoin Holding Support At $40K, ETH Merge to Be Delayed and More
Bitcoin was trading steadily around $40,000. Meanwhile, Elon Musk was bidding to take over Twitter (TWTR) for $54.20 per share. Noah Perlman of Gemini joined ""First Mover"" to share his crypto markets analysis as well as details on the launch of a Gemini crypto rewards credit card. NEAR token has doubled its price in the past four weeks; Near Protocol co-founder Illia Polosukhin shared details of the protocol's rise. Plus, ""First Mover"" hosts spoke with Fireblocks Head of Corporate Strategy Adam Levine and Galaxy Digital's Christine Kim.
Some Indian Payment Processors Cut Off Local Crypto Exchanges: The moves follow a new tax on crypto profits and come as regulators pressure the payments companies, sources say.
South Korean Smart Contract Auditing Platform Sooho.io Raises $4.5M: The startup works with Samsung and LG.
US Officials Tie North Korea’s ‘Lazarus’ Hackers to $625M Crypto Theft: Axie Infinity’s Ronin blockchain suffered a massive exploit late last month.
Amazon Not Close to Accepting Crypto as Payment in Retail Business, CEO Says: Still, Andy Jassy said the company may sell NFTs in the future.
‘Jack Dorsey’s First Tweet’ NFT Went on Sale for $48M. It Ended With a Top Bid of Just $280: Crypto entrepreneur Sina Estavi bought Twitter founder Jack Dorsey’s first-ever tweet as an NFT for $2.9 million last year. He listed the NFT for sale again at $48 million last week.
Sam Bankman-Fried: The Man, the Hair, the Vision: SBF is 30 and his company, FTX, is everywhere. He'll be appearing at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
Today's crypto explainer: India Crypto Tax Guide 2022
Other voices: Bitcoin could hit $100,000 within a year, crypto firm’s CEO predicts (CNBC)
""These images have been seen before. Some are a part of [Pattie] Boyd’s first gallery show, “Through the Eye of a Muse,” which traveled from San Francisco to Dublin to Sydney to Almaty, Kazakhstan. The photos provide an intimate look at the life she shared with her first husband, Beatles’ guitarist George Harrison, and later her second husband, his best friend and guitar god Eric Clapton. It also contains what Boyd claims is the world’s first “selfie,” discovered years after the fact, that has gone on to be one of her best-selling photographs."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... ""Elden Ring is not just hugely successful, but a huge creative departure from current game-industry norms. It’s the seventh game in a string of titles by developer From Software, all marked by their thoroughly unconventional gameplay and, especially, their experimental approach to storytelling. They’re obscure, challenging and extremely weird."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""The interest rate on America’s most popular mortgage hit 5% for the first time in more than a decade, extending a sharp rise that has yet to significantly slow the red-hot housing market."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
58,1149,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/15/the-us-and-europe-cant-regulate-crypto-alone/,The US and Europe Can't Regulate Crypto Alone,Global adoption makes regulating crypto inside national siloes futile.,2022-04-15,"Crypto is keeping lawmakers busy on both sides of the Atlantic.
They really should be working together – and, for that matter, with other legislators around the world. When you’re dealing with a technology that pays scant regard for borders, a more borderless approach is needed.
In the past month, U.S. senators Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) announced their co-sponsorship of comprehensive crypto legislation, Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) filed a detailed proposal for regulating stablecoins, and five Democratic congressmen introduced the Electronic Currency and Secure Hardware (ECASH) Act. to develop a cash-like digital dollar.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Meanwhile, in Brussels, the European Union’s landmark Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) legislative framework has moved to “trilogue” discussions among the European Parliament, Council and Commission, with the goal being a single model for licensing providers of crypto asset services that “passportable” across all 27 EU member states. After a knife-edge vote last month, the bill was stripped of draconian provisions that would have prohibited proof-of-work mining on environmental grounds and is now heavily focused on stablecoins.
From the crypto community’s perspective, there are pros and cons in these different U.S. and European approaches. But it all could be a moot point. Developments outside of the big Western economies are a reminder that crypto is global by nature and will grow wherever it faces the least resistance. That raises huge implications for whatever decisions to control or manage the industry are taken in Europe and the U.S.
In Africa, for example, a partnership between mega crypto exchange FTX and Nairobi-based AZA Finance is poised to open a network of on- and off-ramps for Africans using a variety of national currencies to engage with Web 3 commerce and systems.
This comes as crypto activity in Africa is booming. According to Chainalysis’s 2021 global crypto adoption index, Kenya and Nigeria – with a combined population of around 260 million people – were ranked fifth and sixth in the world, respectively. As of June last year, Nigeria was the biggest market for Paxful, a leader in peer-to-peer crypto payments, accounting for 1.5 million users. And as we learned in an episode of our “Money Reimagined” podcast last year, crypto innovation hubs are thriving in Lagos, Kenya, Johannesburg and Cape Town, with decentralized finance (DeFi) and non-fungible token (NFT) projects taking off everywhere.
Meanwhile, the biggest exchanges are rushing to set up shop in the Middle East. Binance recently obtained relatively liberal licenses to operate in Bahrain and Dubai and has received an approval in principle to operate as a broker-dealer in Abu Dhabi, with new accommodative laws being established in the United Arab Emirates. Around the same time, FTX got a Dubai license.
And let's not forget what’s happening in Ukraine. Even before the Russian invasion, which prompted an unprecedented inflow of crypto funds into Ukraine to support both the war effort and humanitarian causes, Ukraine was a world leader in adoption. Now, with President Zelenskyy hurrying through a new law legalizing cryptocurrencies, it is now perhaps the world leader in crypto usage.
If you’re a crypto developer, these places are where the action is right now. Not only are they friendlier regimes, but the rapid pace of adoption there is creating a virtuous circle of growth that’s encouraging developers to offer profitable crypto services.
And because digitally nomadic developer teams don’t even need to physically move to such places to take advantage of these opportunities, the speed with which they are seized upon is very fast indeed.
What this means is that, independently of efforts by the U.S. and EU to contain and manage the development of cryptocurrency services, the wider ecosystem around crypto will continue to develop and grow.
Whether it does so in a way that is beneficial to the U.S. or EU is by no means assured, however.
Indeed, the argument that killed the attempt to impose an EU ban on proof-of-work mining was that it would create opportunities for greenhouse gas-producing energy providers to woo bitcoin miners to their locations – Kazakhstan’s coal-based mining boom being a case in point. If the goal of regulation is to achieve some benefit for the world at large – which is the case for any climate-related rules – then its designers have to be wary of such perverse outcomes.
Regulating bankers is comparatively easy. By definition they need a license, their very existence defined by their relationship to the central bank’s monetary provisions. Take the license away and the entity is literally no longer a bank.
It’s much harder to regulate open-source developers, especially if they aren’t paid by a centralized company per se but instead are remunerated by the open network they serve with tokens generated and issued by a protocol. While there are concerted efforts by policy designers in the U.S. and Europe to impose licensing constraints on DeFi coders – we addressed one example last week – it’s very difficult to force people who can be anywhere and who are answerable only to themselves not to write open-source code.
I’m not arguing that crypto projects should not be regulated, by the way. There’s a real societal interest in trying to steer such projects toward the protection of a public good. It’s just that regulating crypto needs a more nuanced, accommodative and, most importantly, internationally coordinated approach if it is to be effective."
59,1155,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/17/first-mover-asia-terra-is-2022s-version-of-corporate-bitcoin-buying-cryptos-hold-steady-in-weekend-trading/,First Mover Asia: Terra Is 2022’s Version of Corporate Bitcoin Buying; Cryptos Hold Steady in Weekend Trading,"The Luna Foundation Guard now holds about $1.7 billion in bitcoin, but crypto markets seem unimpressed with its purchases this year; bitcoin and ether are flat.",2022-04-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin was trading just under the $40,000 threshold where it started the weekend.
Insights: Luna Foundation Guard's bitcoin accumulation differs from purchases by publicly traded companies.
Technician's take: (Editor's note: Due to the long holiday weekend, Technician's Take will not appear. In its place, First Mover Asia is republishing a column by CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris on Block co-founder Jack Dorsey.)
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $39,928 -1.20%
Ether (ETH): $3,O26 -1.23%
Bitcoin, other major cryptos were flat for the holiday weekend
Bitcoin ended the week perched roughly where it spent much of the past few days, a little above $40,000, and with few signs of a rally.
""Last week we shared concerns around bitcoin's ability to maintain upward momentum,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote in comments to CoinDesk. ""We highlighted $40K as the struggling point on the downside and that has been the state of the market this week.""
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $39,928, a little lower from where it stood 24 hours earlier and about the same as where it started Friday during the holiday weekend. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading at about $3,026, a level from which it has barely budged since last Monday. Other major cryptos were largely in the red, albeit slightly, although SOL was one of the few exceptions rising about 1%.
Trading over the long weekend was light as investors continue to process rising inflation, the possibility of a recession and the latest developments from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. Markets, which were closed Friday, were down on Thursday with the tech-focused Nasdaq off more than 2% and the S&P 500 falling 1.2%.
Russia pressed forward with its attacks on major Ukraine cities, including the capital Kyiv, and demanded the surrender of the strategic Black Sea port of Mariupol in the southeast. Ukraine Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Sunday that discussions with Russia about establishing humanitarian corridors for civilians to evacuate major Ukraine cities had broken down.
Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull, was pessimistic about the coming week, noting that support could form well below $40,000. ""Things still don't look particularly bullish for bitcoin, and we continue to look for a reaction around $37K,"" he wrote. ""For any upward move, BTC will need to consolidate around $42K in the coming week – an unlikely scenario in the absence of major news or catalysts.""
S&P 500: 4,392 -1.2%
DJIA: 34,451 -0.3%
Nasdaq: 13,351 -2.1%
Gold: $1,974 +.05%
Terra Is 2022’s Version of Corporate Bitcoin Buying
Michael Saylor really wants corporations to follow his lead and put bitcoin on the balance sheet. In early 2021 the MicroStrategy (MSTR) CEO held a seminar on that topic, and claimed to have an audience of 1,400 firms. Having bitcoin in the corporate treasury alongside equities and bonds was supposed to cement the asset class in the history books, and lead to it hitting $6 million.
A year later, corporations don’t seem overly interested. According to CoinGecko’s tracker of public companies, there aren’t a lot of new entities that have added crypto to their balance sheets over the last year. The only non-major crypto or payments firm to have it is Tesla (TSLA). Block (SQ), the former Square, has it as it allows its clients to trade crypto, while a few game developers have it as part of a Web 3 gaming push or because they accept crypto as a payment method.
Saylor continues to add it to the MicroStrategy balance sheet, saying in a recent note to investors, “Adopting bitcoin as our primary treasury reserve asset set us apart from conventional competitors and elevated our brand.”
But he just can’t convince others to do the same. For listed firms, bitcoin is notoriously difficult to deal with from an accounting perspective. The narrative that bitcoin’s value will hit all-time highs because of corporate faith in it just didn’t materialize.
But in this void, Terra has stepped in with its frequent bitcoin buys, which pushed the Luna Foundation Guard’s (LFG) bitcoin holdings to nearly $1.7 billion. Founder Do Kwon has expressed a wish for that number to hit $10 billion. The current total makes Terra/LFG the second-largest corporate holder behind MicroStrategy’s $3.9 billion.
Does the market care about this narrative? Not really. The correlation between LFG’s bitcoin buys and the price of bitcoin is weakening; the last few buys didn’t stop bitcoin’s decline.
CryptoQuant’s data suggests that institutional interest continues to be strong for crypto, but hedge funds, family offices and high-net-worth individuals aren’t listed corporations. They would have a different investment thesis, and tempo, than what Saylor prescribed for corporations.
LFG’s mandate for buying crypto is also different from what a listed firm would do, and it is important is to look at the scale of the HODLing as well as the tempo.
LFG isn’t a listed Fortune 500 company, so the market doesn’t apply the same prestige to the purchases as bitcoin continues to stay correlated with equities and decline in value. Which, in turn, is the same logic that tells corporate treasurers that perhaps bitcoin isn’t the best asset for their books.
Jack Dorsey, Block and the Perils of Making Crypto User-Friendly (by CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris)
Last July, payments startup/giant (can you be both?) Square announced that it would be developing a hardware cryptocurrency wallet. The prospect of a wallet designed by the same folks who build the world’s fastest-growing point-of-sale technology promised exciting advances in ease of use and adoption. And that was months before Jack Dorsey flipped the tech world table by resigning from Twitter to focus on Square (now Block) full time, even further upping the stakes.
But, for perhaps the first time in Dorsey’s years-long flirtation with Bitcoin (“crypto,” not so much), there’s a significant disconnect between his plans and crypto long-timers’ preferences. In a Friday blog post, Block (SQ) announced its hardware wallet would make fingerprint identification the primary and default method for users to access their funds. Block does say it will “evaluate additional access methods that customers could opt into.”
At least in the case of consumer goods like cell phones, the motivation for adding biometric access control is usually simple convenience, but the ultimate implications could be dire. Another Web 2 holdover, Sam Altman, a former president of Y Combinator, a firm that helps fund tech startups, introduced a token called worldcoin over the summer of 2021. Critics including Edward Snowden pointed out that the scheme would risk exposing users’ biometric data with potentially severe and permanent consequences for victims. When the ruthless capitalists at the American Enterprise Institute think your plan is anti-social, you know you’re in trouble.
To be fair, the Block plan is different from the worldcoin one in crucial ways that make it more defensible. In part because the planned wallet is a single-user device, it will be able to create and store its biometric credentials locally, as your phone does. Worldcoin, by contrast, seemed likely to require a centralized database of iris-scan hashes, an absolute five-alarm fire of poor security architecture.
But even local processing and storage is a real risk – ultimately, no local data that can be reached via the internet should ever be considered truly secure. And the literally lifelong consequences of a compromised fingerprint make even the remotest exposure worth seriously interrogating.
Equally worrisome, making a fingerprint the main way of authorizing a crypto wallet could mean less emphasis on private key management. That could introduce an added risk vector for users: if your hardware wallet is the only home of your private keys, and that hardware is controlled by a fingerprint, the risk of losing all your money just went up rather than down.
Block seems well aware of the risks here, based on both the content and timing of the announcement. “We're aware of limitations [of fingerprint security] we'll need to design around,” the announcement states. And in the communications business, Fridays are when you drop news you don’t want anyone to pay too much attention to – reporters are largely finishing up their assignments and looking forward to a blissful weekend. So it’s a good bet Block was seeking to minimize blowback here.
All that said, Block is trying to thread an extremely tricky needle, and its current plans deserve a thoughtful rather than knee-jerk response. The announcement post makes clear the priority was to design a wallet that can be used “securely, but with ease,” balancing user experience with safety.
“We don’t want to force new behaviors on customers with a novel interface on the hardware component of the wallet we’re building,” the announcement continues. “Instead, making the mobile application the center of the experience will lead to familiar, intuitive interactions.”
For better or worse, we’re very used to using fingerprint unlocks on smaller devices. So using them makes absolute sense from a Silicon Valley hardware designer’s perspective. The presumption that something should be a mass-market product, ideally usable by even the slowest kids on the bus, is baked into the business models and culture of even relatively agile entities like Block.
Read more: David Z. Morris - Jack Dorsey Takes Square Deep Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole
The logic also, however, aligns with many calls within the crypto industry to prioritize making user experience better and more intuitive, not just for wallets but also for decentralized exchanges (DEX) and everything else. The problem, as crypto and security experts including MetaMask’s Taylor Monahan have pointed out, is that a smooth user experience is almost inextricable from security risks. In fact, she specifically cites another “ease-of-use” feature that led people to not save their private keys properly. It's about a feature of an early version of MyCrypto/MEW, the wallet Monahan built before joining Metamask recently. Specifically, the feature was an automatic download/display of all the wallet information that people apparently forgot to write down pretty often.
Ultimately, there will eventually be crypto products that strike the right balance between security and usability. But frankly, I think companies rushing in that direction now are shortchanging the entire ecosystem by de-emphasizing education. In fact, the assumption that front-end design can make a crypto system just as smooth and effortless to use as a Web 2 system may well prove to be fundamentally flawed: The complexity of crypto is inextricable from its decentralization, and methods of “abstracting away” that complexity almost always add new attack surfaces for people who want to take your money.
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China gross domestic product (MoM/YoY March)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China industrial production (YoY March)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China retail sales (YoY March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Rethinking Securities Law in a Crypto Age
“Money Reimagined” hosts Sheila Warren and Michael Casey were joined by securities law expert Chris Brummer of Georgetown Law School. They discussed the limits of outdated U.S. securities law and the required rethinking needed for oversight and regulation of the crypto industry. Brummer also shares his ideas for a new disclosure framework for crypto markets.
US Officials Tie North Korea’s ‘Lazarus’ Hackers to $625M Crypto Theft: Axie Infinity’s Ronin blockchain suffered a massive exploit late last month.
OlympusDAO Co-Founder Doxxed? Lawsuit Claims to Unmask 'Apollo': An early Olympus investor alleges he was cheated out of millions of OHM tokens when key smart contracts were rendered inoperable.
The US and Europe Can't Regulate Crypto Alone: Global adoption makes regulating crypto inside national siloes futile.
Sam Bankman-Fried: The Man, the Hair, the Vision: SBF is 30 and his company, FTX, is everywhere. He'll be appearing at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
The US and Europe Can't Regulate Crypto Alone: Global adoption makes regulating crypto inside national siloes futile.
Today's crypto explainer: 5 Social Media Crypto Scams to Avoid
Other voices: A $620 million hack? Just another day in crypto (MIT Technology Review)
""Where does this continuing dominance come from, given that the U.S. economy no longer has the commanding position it held for a couple of decades after World War II? The answer is that there are self-reinforcing feedback loops, in which people use dollars because other people use dollars."" (New York Times columnist Paul Krugman) ... ""Now, with borrowing rates hitting 5% for the first time since 2011, homes may be getting too expensive to keep prices rising so rapidly."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Battered by high inflation readings and sharp messages from Federal Reserve officials about the need for interest-rate increases, bond prices have tumbled this year at a pace investors have rarely seen."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
60,1148,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/18/wonderfi-bulks-up-further-with-planned-31m-acquisition-of-coinberry/,Canada’s WonderFi Bulks Up Further With Planned $31M Acquisition of Coinberry Crypto Exchange,"WonderFi recently completed the purchase of Bitbuy, another trading venue.",2022-04-18,"Crypto platform WonderFi Technologies intends to buy Canadian crypto trading platform Coinberry for $30.6 million as the Kevin O’Leary-backed company continues to consolidate its presence in Canada, WonderFi said Monday.
The Vancouver-based WonderFi recently closed its $162 million acquisition of Bitbuy, a crypto trading platform in Canada with over 400,000 users. Coinberry currently services more than 220,000 registered Canadian clients. WonderFi expects the all-stock deal for Coinberry to close in Q2.
Canada’s crypto market remains fragmented, thus consolidation is key for WonderFi, according to CEO Ben Samaroo. WonderFi is also planning to expand globally this year while diversifying its offerings of digital asset products.
Samaroo noted that WonderFi is in the process of expanding Bitbuy’s brand into Australia, while “actively looking” at U.S. expansion later this year.
Read more: Kevin O’Leary-Backed DeFi Platform WonderFi to Purchase Bitbuy for $162M in Cash, Shares
To round out its product offerings, WonderFi recently announced plans to buy game developer Sun Machine Entertainment for $13.5 million in an effort to gain exposure to play-to-earn gaming and non-fungible tokens (NFT). That deal is also expected to close during Q2.
“It’s really another stream to acquire users,” Samaroo said of the Sun Machine deal, noting its potential to reach users who aren’t focused on crypto trading. In turn, those gamers can earn NFTs and claim them through WonderFi’s combined platforms.
The company counts O’Leary and FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried as strategic investors.
“Compliant access to crypto is what matters and WonderFi has quickly established itself as a leader in Canada. Next stop, global,” O’Leary said in a statement."
61,1154,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/19/first-mover-asia-is-germany-really-the-most-crypto-friendly-jurisdiction-maybe-not-bitcoin-gains/,First Mover Asia: Is Germany Really the Most Crypto-Friendly Jurisdiction? Maybe Not; Bitcoin Gains,BTC is continuing its recovery from a five-week low on Monday.,2022-04-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin traded higher alongside U.S. stocks, reaching $41,360.
Insights: Germany might not be as crypto-friendly as its top ranking implies.
Technician's take: Bitcoin's recovery phase remains intact, albeit within a wide trading range.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $41,386 +1.4%
Ether (ETH): $3,102 +2%
Bitcoin Price Rises for Second Day on Hopes for Soft Landing
By Bradley Keoun and Angelique Chen
Bitcoin (BTC) continued its recovery from a five-week low of around $38,700 on Monday.
Recently, the largest cryptocurrency by market value was changing hands at $41,300, still well off the high around $48,000 a few weeks ago.
“The macro landscape is looking positive, in my opinion,” wrote Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at the U.K.-based digital asset broker GlobalBlock in a newsletter.
Sotiriou thinks the economy will have a soft landing despite many analysts forecasting a recession. He is bullish on bitcoin and equities even though the U.S. Federal Reserve might jack up interest rates by 0.5 percentage point next month – double the 0.25 percentage-point increases seen in recent years.
Last week, crypto funds suffered outflows for the second straight week, with some $97 million of redemptions, possibly due to ""bitcoin becoming increasingly interest-rate sensitive.""
According to Glassnode, a large amount of bitcoin supply has been accumulated between the $38,000 and $45,000 price range, as reported by CoinDesk's Damanick Dantes in Market Wrap. That suggests price-insensitive traders hold much of bitcoin's supply above the $40,000 price level.
""Traders have still yet to make high conviction bets to the upside or downside,"" according to analysts from the investment research firm FundStrat.
Coin Metrics, a blockchain analysis firm, noted that Bitcoin is approaching the halfway point between the original blockchain's third and fourth reward halvings. (They happen every 210,000 data blocks, or roughly every four years; the next one is scheduled to happen on May 4, 2024.)
""Halvings are the core feature of Bitcoin’s programmatic monetary policy,"" Coin Metrics wrote.
In traditional markets, U.S. stocks rose as analysts noted that investors had become too bearish, and the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond yield rose to 2.94%, the highest since 2018.
Elsewhere in crypto, CoinDesk's Tracy Wang reported that the prolific decentralized finance (DeFi) developer Andre Cronje appears to be back in crypto after abruptly quitting the industry last month.
S&P 500: +1.6%
DJIA: +1.5%
Nasdaq: +2.2%
Gold: $1,952 -0.4%
No, Germany Isn’t the World’s Most Crypto-Friendly Country
By Sam Reynolds
What’s the first thing you associate ""EU"" with when it comes to business? Devastatingly high taxes and a fierce bureaucracy.
So it's of some surprise when Germany recently took top spot away from Singapore as the world’s most crypto-friendly jurisdiction, according to a ranking by CoinCub.
The rationale? No taxation on crypto if you sell it after a year of holding. If you sell it (over 600 euros, or $648) prior to that one-year point, you are taxed under the usual capital gains regime.
To be sure, this is a very good thing for long-term HODLERs. If you are long bitcoin and want to stack sats, this tax regime will treat you very well.
However, this doesn’t work very well for decentralized finance (DeFi). Decentralized exchanges, yield farming, liquidity mining, all of this relies on rapid trades and transactions. It's what underpins this fancy new machine, which has over $100 billion in value currently locked in.
So a DeFi trader in Germany is going to have a nasty tax bill come tax time. Figuring out the tax liability is difficult, when the average month of a DeFi trader is a complex and intricate web. Crypto derivatives trading – which pumps through hundreds of billions of dollars a day in volume – is also subject to the usual capital gains tax, too. Germany’s crypto friendliness quickly slips away if you look at it under this rubric.
Crypto has naturally gravitated to hubs like Singapore because of the lack of capital gains tax. Singapore is an island city with no natural resources, so in order to jump-start its development as a hub it created a tax-friendly regime to encourage trade.
With no capital gains tax there’s no need to worry about the length of holding when experimenting with new protocols. You’re just able to trade.
Granted, Singapore has made some moves that would be considered ""anti-crypto,"" but this still doesn’t mean the country should be considered crypto unfriendly.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) discourages crypto trading by the general public because it knows that if enough people get rekt after leveraging their retirement savings, they will complain to politicians who will ask for more oversight and control – this oversight and control just isn’t in the DNA of a financial hub like Singapore.
But despite this discouragement, the lack of capital gains tax still exists and anyone that wants to trade can go right ahead. Singapore also discourages other behavior like drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco, and accompanies both with hefty vice taxes. No such vice tax exists for crypto.
Bitcoin Stabilizes Above $40K; Resistance at $43K-$46K
By Damanick Dantes
Bitcoin (BTC) returned above $40,000, which is the midpoint of its three-month long price range. Still, the cryptocurrency faces initial resistance at $43,500, which could stall the current upside in price.
BTC was trading around $41,200 during the New York trading day, and was up 2% over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on intraday charts is approaching overbought levels, similar to what occurred in late-March, which preceded a pullback in price. On the daily chart, however, the RSI is neutral, which means buyers could remain active at support.
For now, BTC continues to hold support above $37,500 – a key level that has kept the recovery phase intact. Further, a series of higher price lows since Jan. 24 indicates a slowdown in selling pressure, albeit with 20% price swings.
Momentum signals on the weekly chart are still positive, which could point to additional upside toward the $46,710 resistance level over the intermediate term.
10:30 a.m HKT/SGT(2:30 a.m. UTC) International Monetary Fund Global Outlook Press Conference
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Binance Exec on $150M Funding Round to Reimburse Victims of Ronin Exploit, Terra's LUNA Becomes Third Largest Stablecoin
Australia’s First Bitcoin ETF to Be Listed Next Week: Report: BTC was up by 2% over the past 24 hours, compared with an 11% rise in RUNE and LUNA.
Terra’s LUNA Surges 17% as UST Becomes Third-Largest Stablecoin: Terra has also purchased record amounts of Convex' tokens in the past month, research found.
FTX Plan Said to Face CFTC Roundtable Next Month: A proposal from FTX.US on direct derivatives clearing is set to be the focus of public discussion on May 23.
The End of NFT Rug Pulls?
Today's crypto explainer: Inflationary and Deflationary Cryptocurrencies: What’s the Difference?"
62,1151,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/20/coinbase-nft-marketplace-goes-live-can-it-rival-opensea/,Coinbase NFT Marketplace Goes Live. Can It Rival OpenSea?,The beta iteration of the exchange’s marketplace is putting a social-media spin on NFT trading.,2022-04-20,"Crypto exchange Coinbase (COIN) launched the beta version of its long-awaited non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace on Wednesday, allowing a small group of users from a wait-list of 3 million to use the platform for the first time.
The marketplace, which was first announced last October, will support Ethereum-based NFT trading, with a social-media spin that could distinguish it from competitors.
The platform will allow users to showcase their personal profile and follow accounts whose content will appear in a “For You” feed, which is visually similar to social-media platforms like Instagram and TikTok. Users will also be able to “like” and comment on each other's posts, a Coinbase representative told CoinDesk.
“This product is more than just buying and selling, it is about building your community,” Sanchan Saxena, Coinbase's vice president of product, told reporters in a press briefing on Tuesday. “It is about making sure that you can connect and engage with them on the platform. One other thing I mentioned in the beginning was that it’s a very social marketplace.”
Read more: Coinbase Jumps After Sign-Up Numbers for NFT Marketplace Revealed
The marketplace will support “all sorts of self-custody wallets” besides the official Coinbase Wallet, a decision the exchange made to create “an open NFT environment for everyone,” according to the briefing. The platform will also support fiat purchases via credit cards.
The marketplace will start off with zero transaction fees (besides Ethereum gas costs and creator-implemented royalties), but will eventually implement a “low, single-digit fee,” Saxena said.
Coinbase has a plan for what it’s calling “progressive decentralization” within the marketplace, where certain features will begin centralized but eventually move on-chain.
One of these features is user comments, where threads will initially be stored on Coinbase servers but eventually moved to the blockchain.
Another is what the exchange is calling a user’s “follower graph,” which they will be able to take with them from platform to platform.
A social media-focused marketplace is novel in the current NFT landscape, but could become the norm as more players enter the industry.
Read more: Coinbase Follows FTX.US Into NFT Trading
In March, Meta Platforms (FB) CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced that NFTs would eventually come to Instagram, though details on the integration remain unknown.
Social-media focus or not, any marketplace entering the world of Ethereum NFTs will have to take a direct shot at OpenSea, which has hosted 95% of all Ethereum-based NFT traders in the past 30 days, according to data from DappRadar."
63,633,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/21/near-defi-project-bastion-reveals-9m-funding-round-on-heels-of-bstn-airdrop-plans/,Near DeFi Project Bastion Reveals $9M Funding Round on Heels of BSTN Airdrop Plans,"Investors include Three Arrows Capital, Jump Crypto, FTX Ventures and Jane Street.",2022-04-21,"Near’s largest decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol, Bastion, has closed a $9 million Series A funding round, signaling mounting venture capital interest in the Near ecosystem.
Crypto venture and trading firm Three Arrows Capital led the round, with participation from FTX Ventures, Jump Crypto, Jane Street, Crypto.com Capital, Spartan Group, CMS and Hypersphere. Bastion declined to disclose the round’s valuation.
Bastion is a lending, borrowing and exchange protocol built on Aurora, the Ethereum-compatible layer of the Near blockchain.
The funding round announcement comes on the heels of Bastion’s impending token launch.
On Wednesday evening, Bastion announced it would be launching its BSTN governance token, with trading set to begin on Near’s decentralized exchange Trisolaris on 23:59 UTC Thursday. The token launch will value the protocol at $180 million.
Read more: Near-Based DeFi Protocol Bastion to Launch BSTN Token at a $180M Valuation
$BSTN Token Launch is finally here. 🗿🗿🗿

This is the start of the main chapter. 🚀 pic.twitter.com/S13C2WPriX
Bastion says it has $620 million in total value locked (TVL) though public data sites place it lower, making it the largest DeFi protocol in the Near ecosystem. The project first launched on March 7 as a fork of Ethereum’s popular lending and borrowing DeFi protocol Compound.
Compound, which was founded in 2017 and launched its COMP token in 2020, currently sits at nearly $9.7 billion in TVL, according to data from CoinGecko.
“We have isolated markets,” said Bastion’s pseudonymous founder N^2 (“Near Squared”), who described Bastion as distinct from Compound due to the “separate” lending protocols operating underneath Bastion.
“Compound is restricted in the number of assets it can offer,” N^2 told CoinDesk. “If one asset gets hacked, it can drain the entire pool. Meanwhile, we can compartmentalize.”
N^2 also told CoinDesk that he is doxxed to Bastion investors but he prefers staying pseudonymous to the public in order to “focus on building the product with fewer distractions.”
The project says it plans to use the new funding towards hiring, marketing, business development and partnerships.
Last month, Bastion closed a $2 million seed round, also at an undisclosed valuation.
Near has attracted a wave of DeFi and investment activity of late, with Tiger Global leading a $350 million raise for the layer 1 blockchain earlier this month.
Near’s NEAR token is up 48% over the past 30 days, compared to paltry 6% and 0% gains for ether (ETH) and bitcoin (BTC), respectively."
64,1147,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/21/a-year-after-coinbases-public-debut-most-listed-crypto-firms-are-underwater-compared-with-bitcoins-performance-btc-retreats-from-42k/,"First Mover Asia: A Year After Coinbase's IPO, Most Listed Crypto Firms Are Under Water Compared With Bitcoin's Performance; BTC Retreats From $42K",Fed Chair Jerome Powell suggested a series of interest-rate increases that might be higher than the usual 0.25 percentage point.,2022-04-21,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin retreats from $42K as U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell suggests that ""front-end loading"" might be the plan for U.S. monetary policy makers as they hike interest rates.
Insights: Listed crypto companies' share prices have underperformed bitcoin (BTC) price moves.
Technician's take: BTC is holding support, similar to what occurred in late March before a 16% price rise.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $40,745
Ether (ETH): $3,004
Bitcoin retreats after touching $42K
""Front-end loading"" sounds like the early phase of a construction project, and that's the phrase Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell used Thursday to describe a possible strategy by the U.S. central bank to tamp down inflation running at a four-decade high.
The idea is the Fed might enact a series of steep interest-rate increases – say 0.5 percentage point per meeting, versus the more typical 0.25 percentage point – to make sure consumer prices don't spiral out of control.
“We’re really going to be raising rates and getting expeditiously to levels that are more neutral and then that are actually tight,” Powell said during a panel with European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde, arranged by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The risk is that higher borrowing costs crimp spending and investment, and then the economy slides into a recession.
Bitcoin is seen by many investors as an inflation hedge, and it's also seen as a risky asset that might come under pressure during a period of shrinking economic growth. So Powell's hawkish tone was enough to send bitcoin's price lower, just as the largest cryptocurrency appeared to be gaining steam.
The price reached a 10-day high, nearly touching $43,000, but then slid back toward $40,000, erasing recent days' gains.
""Bitcoin price action has continued to whipsaw between a wider range of $38-$47,000,” Tammy Da Costa, analyst at DailyFX, told CoinDesk's Angelique Chen.
U.S. stocks ended the day lower, and U.S. Treasury yields rose.
S&P 500: -1.5%
DJIA: -0.8%
Nasdaq: -2.1%
Gold: $1,953, -0.1%
One Year After Coinbase’s IPO, Most Listed Crypto Companies Are Underwater
The last quarter of 2020 was an exciting time. Bitcoin seemed meteoric, given the new institutional interest in the asset class. Coinbase Global (COIN) filed preliminary paperwork with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a listing, and soon after, pre-IPO contracts were trading on FTX that valued the company close to $75 billion.
But just over a year since its IPO, Coinbase’s stock is down nearly 55%, underperforming bitcoin, which is down around 26% for the same time period (to be sure, many tech stocks are also down for this same period), as investors’ appetite for listed crypto companies seems to have waned.
In a note published last year, Singapore’s QCP Capital wrote that investors were no longer assigning a strong premium to licenses and regulatory friendliness like they once did, which would in turn put pressure on Coinbase’s stock.
“That premium has been on the pretext that it would give them a free pass while governmental agencies took their war on crypto to other platforms and exchanges instead, like Binance,” QCP wrote at the time. “If now, a regulated U.S. entity who is offering a product that is already being offered in the U.S., going through the proper legal route, can face such harsh action, then nobody is assured to be safe anymore.”
Coinbase’s regulatory compliance and U.S. base also keeps it out of some of the more interesting parts of crypto like lending. It also meant that Coinbase had a slow start in the derivatives market, which overtook the spot market for the first time in June 2021, behind many of its non-US-based rivals, likely turning investors away from its stock.
Hong Kong’s BC Technology Group, which runs the institutional-focused digital assets platform OSL, has seen a similar fate with its stock. Although it had a brief rally after positive earnings, the stock is down nearly 66% over the last year.
Mining stocks aren’t fairing much better. RIOT Blockchain (RIOT), which operates bitcoin mining farms throughout the U.S., is down nearly 66% over the last year while Marathon Digital (MARA), another miner, is down 40%. Canaan (CAN), a manufacturer of mining equipment, is down nearly 70%.
Michael Del Grosso, an analyst at Compass Point Research who covers miners, explains this poor performance by saying in a previous CoinDesk interview, “Mining stocks currently are leveraged plays on the price of bitcoin.”
These mining stocks had their moment when China ordered operations shut in-country and the global hash rate was in flux. But as that sorted itself out and bitcoin flirted with all-time highs yet couldn’t sustain itself, the stocks sank like rocks.
Currently, Compass Point maintains a neutral rating on Riot Blockchain.
This begs the question, are there any listed crypto companies that are actually above the water line?
Indeed there are: crypto banks like Silvergate Capital and Signature Bank.
Both of these banks, which provide banking services to crypto exchanges, have managed to outperform bitcoin over the last year. Given that they are tied to exchanges, their value is based upon the volume of transactions on an exchange.
And volume is maintained at a brisk pace, as is demand for other tools Silvergate provides, like Leverage.
So perhaps the problem with these listed companies isn’t a market hostility to listed crypto companies, but rather that the market needs more than them just being a proxy for the price of bitcoin.
Bitcoin Momentum Strengthens Despite Short-Term Pause
Bitcoin (BTC) generated a positive momentum signal on the daily price chart, similar to what occurred in late March. That suggests buyers could remain active toward the $46,700 resistance level.
The cryptocurrency is up 4% over the past week.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart is declining from overbought levels, which typically occurs during a brief pullback in price. Still, support at $40,000 could maintain BTC's recovery phase.
Initial resistance is seen at $42,400, where sellers were active earlier in the New York trading day. On the daily chart, however, the RSI is rising from oversold levels with stronger momentum, indicating a rise in bullish sentiment.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Japan: Jibun Bank Manufacturing PMI(Apr) PREL; Jibun Bank Services PMI(Apr) PREL
3:15 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:15 a.m. UTC): S&P Global Composite PMI(Apr) PREL
9 p.m. HKT/SGT(1 p.m. UTC): International Monetary Fund Press Briefing: Regional Economic Outlook for Europe, April 2022
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Warner Bros Betting on NFTs With Bat Cowl Launch, Bitcoin Price Eyes 200-Day Average
A Use Case You Can Eat: California Crabs Tracked by Helium Netwo: The Helium Network is a crypto-powered network of Internet hotspots, but it has saved one amateur fisherman thousands of dollars on crab pots every year.
BitRiver Calls OFAC Sanctions ‘Unfair’ Anti-Competitive Move to Benefit US Miners: The firm and 10 of its subsidiaries were added to OFAC's list of designated nationals subject to sanctions.
US House Democrats Call for Scrutiny on Crypto Mining as Environmental Threat: Rep. Huffman and other congressional Democrats wrote the EPA chief on the potential harm to the climate and environment.
Longer reads
Will Rising Interest Rates Sink the Crypto Ecosystem?: Competition for capital is clobbering speculative investments like tech stocks. Digital assets have held up comparatively well – so far.
Today's crypto explainer: No Stupid Questions: What’s a Crypto Token, Anyway?
Other voices: Bitcoin ‘tribalism’ is holding the crypto industry back, Ripple CEO says"
65,891,https://www.coindesk.com/coindesk/2022/04/26/nfts-the-new-social-media-playbook/,404,Subtitle not found,2022-04-26,
66,1152,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/28/how-human-centered-design-can-fix-crypto-payments/,How Human-Centered Design Can Fix Crypto Payments,"Web 3 should steal design ideas from Web 2, Grace “Ori” Kwan says in a CoinDesk Payments Week op-ed.",2022-04-28,"Last month, I bought my teammate a mouse on Amazon Singapore. He sent me the link. I clicked “Buy Now.” The purchase was automatically charged to my American credit card, and the payment was seamlessly converted from USD (U.S. dollars) to SGD (Singapore dollars). Best of all, the process took all of 30 seconds.
The hard part came when he paid me back. “I’ll take cash or USDC-SOL,” I said.
Grace “Ori” Kwan is the cofounder of Orca, a decentralized exchange on Solana. This article is part of CoinDesk’s Payments Week series.
Being colleagues at a decentralized finance (DeFi) startup, the latter seemed like the obvious choice. With the super-speed and low fees of Solana, it’d be easy, right? If neither of us cared about privacy, and the network was feeling cooperative that day, it could have been.
But here’s what the process looked like:
I opened my Solana wallet Phantom, generated a fresh address and sent it over via Discord. He logged into the crypto exchange FTX, exchanged some SOL for USDC and “withdrew” $0.01 to my address for the customary test transaction. FTX sent an email confirming that the withdrawal had been processed – but 15 minutes later, I still hadn’t received anything.
Maybe the network was backed up? Who knows. We went home for the day.
The next day, my $0.01 had come through. Hurray! He sent the rest of the tokens, only to realize that he’d forgotten to account for the exchange rate between Singapore dollars and USD (128 SGD = ~96 USD). No problem – I could just send back the extra to the same address, right? Wrong – since he’d sent it through a centralized exchange, the receiving address would be different. Sigh.
By the time we got the payment sorted, the mouse ordered on Amazon had already arrived.
See also: Why Haven't Crypto Payments Taken Off?
We live in a golden age of capitalist convenience. Crypto is supposed to be the next frontier. So why are crypto payments so damn hard? And how might we make them better?
As an engineer-turned-designer, my answer is: human-centered design.
If you haven’t heard of human-centered design, or HCD, it’s a simple concept: Observe the behaviors of your target users (aka real humans), learn what they need and design a product that caters to those needs.
In contrast, many crypto products embrace what one might call technology-centered design: Observe some underlying data and translate it directly as possible into the user interface. If data is stored as a table in the database, display it as a table in the UI, for example.
Often, the result of this tech-focused design process is an interface that contains all the necessary information, yet appears totally unfamiliar to first-time users.
So are we just talking about new interfaces? All new interfaces – that’s innovation, right? Not quite. But alas, “new” does not mean “better,” at least when it comes to design. Web 2 giants have spent years designing, developing and battle-testing the easiest ways to send money on the web. If we hope to invite the wider world into crypto, we must offer experiences that are at least as good as what’s already out there.
In many cases, that may mean black-boxing all the messy details that crypto apps leave naked for everyone to see.
Think of the last time you made a payment. Who were you paying? The first thing that comes to mind is likely a person or a business. It’s probably not a string of seemingly random letters and numbers.
And yet, crypto wallets and exchanges are largely address-centric. Sure, you can save someone’s address in most wallets, but that’s the same way my mom stored contacts back when all we had was a landline phone.
Web 2 solved this problem long ago through social profiles. In WeChat, I can pay a friend directly through the same interface we use to chat. No need to scan a QR code, trade a phone number or ask for any other identification. And yet, in Web 3, we’re stuck with the address book.
So, my controversial advice? Make Web 3 more like Web 2.
“But no!” the crypto purists are sure to cry. For many, Web 3 means decentralization, which in turn represents freedom from the ever-watching eyes of giant social networks. By attempting to emulate the user experience of Web 2, wouldn’t we sacrifice those ideals?
Yes and no. In some cases, users will happily trade away some degree of anonymity in exchange for a better user experience, which is a trade they should feel empowered to make. In other cases, the tradeoff itself is a fallacy: An experience more like Web 2 can be achieved through decentralized means, such as the Ethereum Name Service. (Similarly, the tagline for the DeFi protocol I co-founded in 2021 Orca is “The DEX for people, not programs.”)
For crypto payments to become mainstream, they must offer additional benefits without sacrificing good design.
See also: What Web 3 Can Learn From Steve Jobs | Opinion
In this sense, new approaches to on-chain payments seem promising. Published images of Solana Pay feature a familiar QR code-based payment interface. (Not my favorite payment UI – tap-to-pay interfaces like Suica and payWave win that contest – but at least there’s no guessing how to use it.)
The exact amount of payments and the identity of payers are not publicly viewable on the blockchain, offering a degree of the privacy users naturally expect from a payment platform.
Plus, it promises merchants lower fees and new approaches to build loyalty with customers through non-fungible tokens (NFTs). However, the protocol has not yet been tested at scale, and the reliability of the network is still a concern. For Solana Pay to succeed, these new features can’t come at the cost of the basics: security, reliability and simplicity.
The golden age of payments is already here. Let’s not make it harder."
67,1153,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/29/cryptos-diversity-problem-its-complicated/,Crypto’s Diversity Problem: It’s Complicated,"Permissionless innovation lowers barriers for disadvantaged groups but the industry is still dominated by white males in key ways, says CoinDesk's chief content officer.",2022-04-29,"We all know the stereotype: The archetypal cryptocurrency fanatic is the “crypto bro,” a white, male software engineer or finance professional who has suddenly come into an unreasonable amount of money.
In reality, there’s much more nuance and variety among the cast of quirky characters who make up the crypto community than that simplistic one-dimensional portrayal allows. Yet, it would still be a glaring mistake to deny that crypto has a diversity issue.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Surveys routinely show that at least twice as many owners of cryptocurrency are men than are women. And while this recent one from BlockFi pointed to a pickup in interest among women, there’s no undoing the fact that it was predominantly men who got in on the ground floor when BTC, ETH, SOL, et al. were priced at a sliver of where they are now.
Power, in terms of resource allocation, is even more biased in this space. You’ll see in it any cursory glance at the “team” page of most leading crypto projects’ websites. The CoinDesk events programming team is reminded of it every day as it struggles to achieve gender and racial diversity among the speakers at our Consensus Festival in June. My podcast co-host, Sheila Warren, alludes to it this week in describing the occupants of the flight that took her to the SALT-FTX conference in the Bahamas this week. It’s a fact: White men dominate crypto.
To critics of this movement, the monochrome appearance of the community offers a weapon with which to rebut the “crypto for good” language around financial inclusion, empowering underserved people and democratizing money.
Yet, that surface-level assessment misses some striking new adoption trends that aren’t easily apparent to mainstream commentators. Minorities and various other marginalized groups are turning to crypto as a tool and developing unique, new innovative uses for it – often at a faster pace than communities that have traditionally had more privileged access to resources. This experience demands a careful approach to fostering diversity. We must not throw the baby out with the bathwater.
The current rate of new crypto adoption in Africa and Latin America is phenomenal, and by some measures outpacing the West. It’s matched with new hubs of crypto innovation in developing countries such as the Philippines, where the Axie Infinity boom saw the expansion of play-to-earn gaming models.
Similarly, crypto usage by Black Americans is booming as a new ethos around “Black Bitcoin,” the title of Isaiah Jackson’s influential book, starts to emerge. Last year, a USA Today/Harris poll found that 23% of Black Americans and 17% of Hispanic Americans owned cryptocurrencies, compared with only 11% for white Americans.
At the same time, artists of color are embracing the non-fungible token market, adding weight to the thesis that previously marginalized classes of creators are using NFTs to bypass traditional funding intermediaries such as film studios, record labels and art galleries and set the terms of their own success.
Meanwhile, minority-focused decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) are springing up with the goal of giving certain people a leg up through collective bargaining power. One example is the UnicornDAO founded by Pussy Riot member Nadya Tolokonnikova, which calls itself ""a feminist movement aiming to tackle patriarchy in Web 3"" and plans to solely invest in female, non-binary, and LGBTQ+ artists in Web 3.
These stories of growth and innovation are a direct outcome of crypto’s disintermediating capacity and its model of permissionless development. There are no gatekeepers telling minority developers, business people or creators what to do; the builders will just build whatever they want. It’s why each story is unique, an experience that’s tailored to the needs of specific communities – a direct reflection of decentralization.
In discussing these successes on this week’s “Money Reimagined” podcast episode, our guests Susan Joseph, executive director of fintech at Cornell University, and Cleve Mesidor, executive director of the Blockchain Foundation, agreed that any efforts to further diversify the industry must not come at the expense of enabling this kind of open innovation.
It would also be a mistake to conclude that these stories imply we should do nothing at all to address diversity in crypto – as might be claimed by those in the crypto space who subscribe to an absolutist laissez-faire economics.
That’s because while there’s diversity in the growth and innovation occurring at the application or product/service layer – where African developers provide payment solutions to local users, for example – the situation is very different at the base protocol layer. There, power – as measured by value held in base tokens such as bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) – remains concentrated in white, male hands.
This matters because that ownership defines the governance structure of the crypto ecosystem built upon those protocols. This power concentration is especially problematic with proof-of-stake consensus algorithms such as Solana, Algorand and others. And we know from the Bitcoin block-size debate (circa 2015) that owners of cryptocurrency wield ultimate power over proof-of-work systems as well.
This matters because the code that runs these protocols’ algorithms is not some neutral factor upon which users can simply “trust in math, not humans.” Rather, it reflects the interests of those who get to define how that code is written. It contains their biases.
So, if these systems are to one day evolve into overarching, society-wide frameworks for finance and economic value transfer, it’s vital they are governed by as wide a group as possible.
How we get there is another issue."
68,1159,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/02/crypto-venture-capitals-rejection-of-venture-capital-and-the-box/,Crypto Venture Capital's Rejection of Venture Capital and ‘The Box’,"The mechanics behind crypto yield farming are eerily simple, but that simplicity should act as a warning label rather than an advertisement.",2022-05-02,"I really like Bloomberg’s ""Odd Lots” podcast. The hosts are quite good (Tracy and Joe) and they consistently bring on impressive guests (readers might remember the Reserve Asset 3.0 piece inspired by Zoltan Pozsar on an “Odd Lots” podcast).
Well, on this Monday's episode, “Odd Lots” had Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF). He is probably best known for his exceptional hair, but he also founded crypto exchange FTX. He ranks among crypto’s richest and, given he studied physics at MIT, probably one of its classically brightest (whatever that means). On the podcast, he compared crypto “yield farming” to a “box” that lets you take out more money than you put into it.
Magically.
That quote hit me like a ton of bricks, but then he tacked on a swipe at venture capital’s investment approach that irked me. His view on venture capital is shared by many, but that view has been muddied by the introduction of crypto. I’m not suggesting SBF is wrong necessarily. What I am suggesting is that crypto venture capital … is … just … not really … venture capital.
That (and maybe more …) below.
– George Kaloudis
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
I’m a bitcoiner. According to the internet purist’s set of rules, that means that I need to shun altcoins and “crypto” altogether. But honestly, that’s boring.
I’m not boring, so I pay attention to the hellspawn landscape of “crypto this, NFT that and blockchain everything” that Bitcoin inspired. Part of that means that I listen whenever SBF speaks. I want to zoom in on two specific things he talked about in the podcast mentioned in the introduction: 1) The Box and 2) venture capital.
On the podcast, Matt Levine (every newsletter writer’s hero) asked SBF to give “an intuitive understanding of yield farming.”
Sam responded with:
Ok … a weirdly simple example using a somewhat cynical tone: The Box seems kind of meaningless, a technologically enabled piggy bank.
He went on:
Then the yield farming kicks in, and The Box starts giving out tokens as interest payments to people who have put tokens in The Box.
Uh … who turned the heat up in here? This is a scathing take on yield farming that you’d only expect from its harshest critics. That it came out of the mouth of one of crypto’s richest was surprising. SBF basically said that yield farming consisted of:
Step 1: Put money in The Box.
Step 2: Wait.
Step 3: ???
Step 4: Profit.
I have nothing more to add, because I think these quotes largely stand on their own. I wanted to write about these quotes to highlight that individuals should exercise caution when it comes to deciding on partaking in yield farming or not. Your yield might just be grounded in nothing except The Box. Which can be fine, as long as you understand that and are OK with it.
Read more: What Is Yield Farming? The Rocket Fuel of DeFi, Explained
After talking about yield farming on the episode, SBF answered a question about how he thought the “institutional or quasi-sort of venture capital money” found the next big thing in crypto. SBF offered to pull it back further and answer how he thought venture capitalists found the next “anything they’re going to invest in.”
He said:
Again. Cynical. But for all my personal cynicism, I don’t completely agree with SBF here. I think that even though he tried to opine on venture capital in general, he still offered up his crypto venture capital take. Because crypto venture capital and traditional venture capital are different.
Venture capital is a form of equity investing that targets startups and early-stage companies in emerging industries. Once a venture capital equity investment is made, so begins the five to 10 year process of business growth, development and execution. Only then do venture capitalists and their LPs make a return. Rinse and repeat. Venture capital funds have a long-term time horizon just as the private equity and private credit funds do.
Crypto venture capitalists, when they’re not investing in the equity of companies operating in the space (companies like Coinbase), are investing in tokens. And when they’re not getting in early on presales, they’re getting in later when their LPs ask if they’ve invested in certain projects (as SBF suggested).
This model is not really venture capital at all. If a token a venture capitalist buys after an LP asks then spikes in price, the venture capitalist can harvest returns by selling on the open market, maybe after years but sometimes after months.
This is one of the places where crypto token venture capital deviates from traditional venture capital. The lack of liquidity of traditional venture capital investment commitments is part of the reason investors expect “good” returns; they are taking a risk by tying their money up for at least five years, and investors feel they should be paid for that risk.
With token investments, crypto venture capitalists can get in and out of trades as easily as hedge funds do. That’s what I think SBF was describing, but that’s not venture capital.
And that’s just one of the differences. There is much more that can be written that deserves attention. For example, there probably is a level of 'FOMO' in traditional venture capital that is spurred on by the immense amount of capital that has been raised in recent years looking for investments. There’s also something to be said about the headline fundraising numbers advertised by token investing venture capitalists, but that’s for another time (and perhaps another author)."
69,902,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/02/amy-wu-gaming-companies-cant-afford-to-avoid-web-3/,Amy Wu: Gaming Companies Can't Afford to Avoid Web 3,"Amy Wu leads ventures, M&A and gaming at cryptocurrency exchange FTX. She's a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival this June.",2022-05-02,"Like many, Amy Wu, now head of ventures and commercial at massive cryptocurrency exchange FTX, first got into crypto during the 2017 bull run. But it wasn’t until the pandemic that she started investing heavily in the industry for Lightspeed, the venture firm where she served as partner at the time.
“It was the next bull market for crypto, and I felt we were going to miss out on a multi-trillion dollar industry if we didn’t start studying and participating in crypto deeply,” she said. She and her Lightspeed partners started taking “five to 10 crypto meetings a day,” learning a lot at, well, lightning speed.
This article is part of Road to Consensus, a series highlighting speakers and the big ideas they will discuss at Consensus 2022, CoinDesk's festival of the year June 9-12 in Austin, Texas. Learn more.
One of Wu’s most pivotal investments through Lightspeed was in FTX, where she became an “active member” of the advisory board. She got to talking regularly with the company’s co-founder and CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, whom she met in early 2021 and felt “inspired” by.
“As longtime venture investors, we are looking for generational CEOs,” she said. “It was so obvious that Sam was extraordinary.” Wu was impressed by his natural ability to explain complex crypto concepts without using any jargon – like the way Ray Dalio effortlessly explains credit to laypeople. Bankman-Fried’s knack for this, and his ability to operate effectively as a CEO, convinced Wu to join FTX full time at the beginning of this year.
Now based in the Bahamas at the company’s headquarters, Wu leads FTX’s $2 billion venture capital fund, FTX Ventures, as well as initiatives for the company in gaming, the commercial space, and mergers and acquisitions. When CoinDesk caught up with her, she was preparing for Crypto Bahamas, a roughly 1,800-person conference put on by FTX and SALT, an events platform, with the goal of bringing together crypto industry natives and key players in traditional finance and entertainment to foster “interdisciplinary conversation,” she said.
“We’re all going a little bananas right now,” she adds before our call. Still, she takes the time to tell CoinDesk how she responds to traditional finance workers’ qualms about crypto, why gaming companies are so bullish on Web 3 and what a tokenized dating app might look like.
When you’re talking to traditional finance people who are really averse to crypto, what are some of the concerns they bring up about crypto and blockchain?
The questions that I get all the time are, ‘What are the real use cases? Are people using crypto for things other than trading or as a store of value?’ I also get, ‘There's so many hacks and vulnerabilities in the space. What is it going to take to reduce that?’ Then, of course, the number one question I get is, ‘What's the regulatory environment for crypto?’
How do you answer those questions?
On the regulatory side, we’ve decided to be a very active participant. Sam spends most of his time talking to regulators in D.C. He plays an active role working with them and discussing what the right regulations might look like, that are fair and protect consumers, but also drive the right incentives. FTX was founded on the assumption that we were going to be a completely regulated industry.
As for all the use cases, the reality is that this year, we’re seeing that some of the strongest teams in traditional industries are moving into and building in and learning about crypto. I'm really hoping in the next 18 to 24 months, we'll actually start seeing these killer app use cases come out. There's a lot in gaming, but dating apps, social networks and utility consumer apps are also going to bake in incentivization with Web 3 elements. That's what I'm most excited about seeing.
The third question people ask about hacks – this is a problem. There was literally a [$625 million] hack on Axie Infinity’s Ronin bridge last month. People don't feel safe in crypto. That needs to be solved. There needs to be more security software and different tooling to really help fix that issue. It's one of the biggest areas that we're looking at investing in right now.
You mentioned a blockchain dating app as an opportunity for a killer app use case. What would that look like?
I haven't seen one yet. However, it'd be pretty fun to utilize the incentive mechanisms of a token in a dating app format. I can imagine that maybe there's a date referral program where it's like, okay, if I refer a lot of great dates that turn into great third or fourth dates, then I get rewarded more tokens, or something like that – trying to improve the dating funnel and also driving user adoption for the app.
You also mentioned Sam going to D.C. to help develop the “right” regulations for the crypto industry. What would the right regulations look like to you?
One set of regulations where you're essentially balancing the consumer protections with incentivizing the right behaviors – you don't want to create regulations that, for example, only benefit large incumbents, making it hard to compete if you're a new company. Some of the GDPR data regulations in Europe, for example, are just benefiting Google and Facebook, and smaller players can’t compete.
There’s an element of that in crypto also. Lawmakers need to have a level of understanding in order to start thinking about, ‘How do I tax this? How do I regulate this?’ Otherwise, it just creates a lot of friction, and doesn't have the intended effects of consumer protections.
FTX reported a user base growth of 60% between October 2021 and January 2022, with daily trading volume rising to $14 billion on average. To what do you attribute FTX’s massive growth in such a short time?
It was a combination of Sam running the company very distinctly, and also just being in the right place at the right time. There was tremendous product market fit because there essentially wasn't an exchange at the time that was built around a more hardcore use case of trading. At the time, a lot of exchanges were tailored for retail users. FTX was built for traders by traders. The feel of our FTX Pro app was designed for a more professional use case.
We then acquired Blockfolio, which has this great retail experience – a lot easier to use UX. But FTX’s growth is the combination of a lot of things, including a blistering pace that Sam has set. The culture of execution within FTX has really contributed to the success of the business. There are virtually no titles within the company. Many of us have external titles that we use, so that external parties can understand our role, but internally, it's an extremely flat organization.
The decision making is both very centralized and also decentralized at the same time. The number of employees is very small – we only have about 300 people. For the size, revenue base and trading volumes that we have, most of our peer exchanges have 10 times the number of employees. But we think we're operating and executing in aggregate faster because when you're lean, you can move faster.
Also, Sam is basically online working 24/7. He has this uncanny ability to have a grasp on everything that's happening around the company. He's able to very quickly provide guidance, but allow any employee within the company to feel a lot of empowerment, to take hold of any project. They feel a lot of excitement about that.
I know one of your big focuses at FTX is gaming. What big gaming companies in the Web 2 world are spinning off Web 3 divisions right now?
You can count on one hand the number of large gaming companies that are not doing that. Virtually all of them are. That’s because a large gaming company is, essentially, a collection of dozens of IPs. They know that it's a portfolio management strategy. You can't predict how big one of your games is going to be, unless it's a beloved franchise like Halo.
Therefore, they launch a number of games, and they see what really resonates with gamers. Most gaming companies feel that they can't miss out on Web 3. We already know that Axie Infinity has attracted over 2 million daily active users. There is definitely an audience out there that's super excited about it. Basically, Web 3 is something that almost no gaming company can afford not to experiment in."
70,118,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/04/crypto-funds-suffer-fourth-straight-week-of-outflows-as-bitcoin-stalls/,Crypto Funds Suffer Fourth Straight Week of Outflows as Bitcoin Stalls,"Some $120 million flowed out of digital-asset funds in the week through April 29, according to CoinShares.",2022-05-04,"Crypto funds suffered a fourth straight week of outflows amid the stagnant bitcoin market while multi-asset funds continued to rake in fresh money.
Overall, digital-asset funds had $120 million in net outflows in the seven days through April 29, CoinShares reported Tuesday.
Bitcoin-focused funds suffered the most, losing $132 million last week, the highest so far this year. Since the start of April, bitcoin funds have suffered a cumulative $310 million of redemptions, though for 2022 to date the funds are still sitting on a cumulative $120 million of net inflows.
Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, fell from about $40,000 to the $38,000 level over the past week, appearing to trade in sync with U.S. stocks as the Federal Reserve pushed to tighten monetary policy in the face of soaring inflation.
Funds focused on ether (ETH) saw $25.1 million in net outflows last week. Out of the 17 weeks already in the books for 2022, ether-focused funds netted inflows in only five of those.
Among the few winners last week, FTX token (FTT)-focused funds saw inflows of $38 million.
Multi-asset focused funds saw an inflow of $1.9 million, continuing a streak that dates back to early January. Multi-asset funds now account for 8% of all assets under management, the largest behind bitcoin- and ether-focused funds, according to CoinShares.
Outflows were evenly distributed between Europe and the Americas. Some 59% came from European funds and 41% came from funds based in the Americas. Funds focusing on altcoins other than the FTX token saw outflows last week. SOL-focused funds saw outflows of $1.5 million – and that was before the Solana blockchain experienced a network shutdown.
DOT-focused funds saw outflows of about $800,000, while Binance coin-focused funds saw outflows of $700,000."
71,776,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/04/wall-street-goes-crypto-in-the-bahamas/,Wall Street Goes Crypto in the Bahamas,The inaugural Crypto Bahamas conference was a four-day flex of FTX’s expanding empire – with a new era of “corporate crypto” firmly on display.,2022-05-04,"The first FTX/SALT Crypto Bahamas conference had lofty goals.
“The vibe we were going after was ‘Crypto Sun Valley,’” Amy Wu, head of FTX Ventures, told CoinDesk on the event’s opening day, referring to Idaho’s annual “summer camp” for billionaires. “It’s going a lot better than we thought.”
Indeed, the lineup was star-studded: Tom Brady and Gisele Bündchen headlined alongside former heads of state Bill Clinton and Tony Blair. Throughout the four-day affair, crypto whales mingled with Wall Street elites.
But perhaps the biggest celebrity of all was FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who was met with cheers and applause during his several on-stage appearances. If anything, the event was a testament to his crypto empire’s growing might and an extended opportunity to show off his unconventional star power.
“Sam’s a polymath, an exceptional thinker,” said Anthony Scaramucci, the hedge fund titan and SALT founder widely known for his brief stint as President Donald Trump’s communications director. “He knows more about politics than anyone.”
In the past year, Bankman-Fried has become an unofficial spokesperson of sorts for the entire crypto industry, amassing a personal fortune of $24 billion, testifying before the U.S. Congress on regulatory issues and regularly going viral on social media.
Scaramucci says FTX approached SALT with the idea to co-host a crypto-themed conference in the Bahamas after FTX’s partnership with SALT New York last September was a success for the exchange.
Last fall, FTX relocated from Hong Kong to the Bahamas, bringing with it a growing cabal of some of crypto’s best and brightest.
The diversity in attendance was no more evident than the disparity in dress code.
In the opening remarks, Bankman-Fried, clad in his usual FTX tee, cargo shorts and crew-length white socks, stood beside Scaramucci, who donned a navy Brioni suit.
“There’s a wide variety of people here, everyone from Bill Clinton to degens with monkey [non-fungible tokens],” said Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of the layer 1 blockchain Near.
“This is a crypto conference for adults,” said Scott Freeman, founder of JST Capital, a crypto asset management firm. “Crypto has been in a bear market for the past five months, but you wouldn’t know it from being here. There’s still a lot of energy. Nobody cares about the price of bitcoin.”
In his opening remarks, Scaramucci cracked several self-deprecating jokes about “boomers” and urged Wall Streeters to be more open-minded toward new technologies.
“When you’re a young guy, you never think you’re going to be old one day,” Anthony Scaramucci, 58, told CoinDesk. “Now, I’m a f***ing fossil. The world is moving forward, I don’t want to leave my generation behind.”
Wall Streeters, who have once been among crypto’s harshest critics, have been softening their stances towards cryptocurrencies, and in some cases, outright embracing the sector.
You may not like it, but this is what peak performance looks like. #wagmi

What have you done to me @SBF_FTX @CryptoBahamas pic.twitter.com/6qaQMEHSxC
Both Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan (JPM) and Citadel’s Ken Griffin have both previously called out crypto for its ties to criminal activity or dismissed the asset class as mere speculation, only to reverse course in the past year.
“Traditional financial firms don’t want to be the first one, but they also don’t want to be the last one,” said Raymond Yuan, founder of CTH Group, on a panel discussion called “Crypto Alpha: Investing in Megatrends” alongside Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu and Matrixport co-founder Jihan Wu.
Zhu, who told CoinDesk he only goes to one or two conferences a year, said he decided to come to Crypto Bahamas due to the sheer concentration of whales (those with large crypto holdings) in attendance, as opposed to the more retail or developer-oriented conferences.
Read more: Three Arrows Capital to Move Headquarters to Dubai, Raise External Capital
“People have been saying for a while, ‘Crypto needs to grow up,’ and now, it’s grown up!” said Kyle Samani, founder of crypto venture capital firm Multicoin Capital, one of the Solana ecosystem’s most prodigious backers.
Crypto entrepreneurs have tended towards clustering in tropical paradises – from Miami to Puerto Rico to Bali. Now, the Bahamas is throwing its hat into the ring.
In the week preceding the conference, the nation of 400,000 unveiled a white paper outlining its regulatory framework for digital assets, which was soon followed by FTX’s groundbreaking ceremony for its new offices in Nassau.
Since moving to our shores, @FTX_Official has left positive footprints throughout The Bahamas. Today, they continue to make positive impressions with the groundbreaking of their new headquarters. I look forward to attending the grand opening of the FTX Bahamas headquarters. pic.twitter.com/vWxzMoN9jm
“FTX’s presence in the Bahamas has demonstrated that the Bahamas is open for business to the crypto world,” Prime Minister Philip Davis told CoinDesk.
Prime Minister Davis added that U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), chair of the House Committee on Financial Services, visited the Bahamas the previous weekend to discuss crypto, among other agenda items.
“The U.S. has realized they are later than most to the digital currency space, that was evident,” said Bahamas Attorney General L. Ryan Pinder of the meeting with Waters.
“She recognized that we were rather progressive,” Pinder told CoinDesk. “She extended a future invitation, if the Bahamas would like to testify in Congress to talk about their experience.”
The Bahamas is one of the only countries where exchanges can obtain a license for both crypto derivatives and the spot market.
Ryan Salame, co-CEO of FTX Digital Markets, says that making the Bahamas a new hub for crypto was one goal of the conference.
“The Bahamas is staying at the forefront,” he told CoinDesk. “A lot of jurisdictions that want to be hubs aren’t building out the regulatory infrastructure.”
Other sources told CoinDesk FTX’s decision to relocate became more urgent after Hong Kong began enforcing a strict three-week travel quarantine during the coronavirus pandemic, a rule that would disrupt Bankman-Fried’s extensive travel schedule.
The FTX founder said on stage that he spends over 50% of his time thinking about crypto regulation, and frequently visits Washington, D.C., to meet with regulators.
In addition to the panels and parties, Crypto Bahamas hosted a hackathon for Solana ecosystem developers.
Serum and Pyth, both protocols built on Solana, co-headlined the hacker house, which was less a house and more a darkened hotel ballroom set up with monitor rigs, catered coffee and loud DJ music.
The room drew over 500 registrants, according to Michelle Sun, a core contributor to Serum, a decentralized exchange on Solana founded by Bankman-Fried.
Solana “really speaks the language of TradFi,” said Sun. “So many of the builders I meet are former Wall Street traders or bankers who decided to build their protocols on Solana.”
Sun, who also resides in the Bahamas, says Serum recently opened a coworking space in the Bahamas adjacent to the FTX offices to accommodate visiting developers.
“It’s a really inclusive and supportive environment,” said Claire Song, a core contributor to Cell Protocol, a decentralized finance (DeFi) project on Solana. “Michelle helped me connect with developer teams building similar DeFiprotocols.”
Song says she became interested in building on Solana because it was one of the few blockchains that uses an order book-based exchange, as opposed to the popular automated market makers (AMMs) such as Uniswap, Sushiswap and Curve that have so far dominated DeFi.
“The AMM model has a lot of limitations – you can’t trade derivatives or apply quant trading strategies,” explained Song. “AMMs are easy to use, but not flexible. That’s why we like Solana, because it has an order book.”
Solana ecosystem heavy-hitters were also in attendance, including co-founders Anatoly Yakovenko and Raj Gokol, as well as a 14-year-old Solana intern, Gajesh Gaik.
The young Rust enthusiast, who has become a bit of a celebrity in the crypto community, told CoinDesk he is working on Taksh, a no-loss lottery game built on Solana.
Met the the man himself, the legendary SBF.

The most humble billionaire I’ve ever met in my life!

Thank you Ramnik for the intro & picture :) pic.twitter.com/atbLZpiD2J
Gaik says he doesn’t attend classes back home in India, and instead spends his time building on Solana, as long as he passes his mandatory school exams every four months.
“I got to meet a lot of people from Crypto Twitter,” said Gaik, who appeared to be having the most fun at the conference out of the dozens of attendees speaking to CoinDesk.
When asked what he enjoys most about the Solana ecosystem, the 14-year-old wunderkind responded, with no hesitation: “The vibes.”"
72,1161,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/05/first-mover-asia-events-in-china-india-have-also-weighed-on-crypto-prices/,"First Mover Asia: Events in China, India Have Also Weighed on Crypto Prices","Investors may have been focusing on U.S. interest rate hikes and the economic fallout of Russia’s Ukraine invasion, but bitcoin has been subject to other headwinds; cryptos soar post-rate hike.",2022-05-05,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Cryptos soar following the U.S. central bank rate hike.
Insights: Bitcoin and other cryptos show the impact of events in Asia.
Technician's take: Expect choppy price action within the current trading range.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $39,644 +5%
Ether (ETH): $2,946 +6%
S&P 500: 4,300 +2.9%
DJIA: 34,061 +2.8%
Nasdaq: 12,964 +3.1%
Gold: $1,881 +0.6%
Cryptos soar following U.S. central bank rate hike
And on the fourth day of May, there was sunshine for bitcoin and other cryptos.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $39,600, up over 5%. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands over $2,930, a 6% gain. Other major cryptos were even more in the green, with ADA and AVAX rising over 16% and 11% respectively, and SOL jumping 8%.
Crypto's upswing, which broke nearly a week of declines, followed the U.S. central bank's long-awaited half-point interest rate hike, the most significant step so far this year in its quest to tame rising inflation. The U.S. Federal Reserve also said that it would reduce its $9 trillion asset portfolio of mortgages and Treasury securities. Other central banks have also raised rates in recent months, although not as aggressively.
Investors have been fearful that the Fed's newfound hawkishness would send the economy into recession. The rate increase was the largest since the bank raised it by a half-point in 2000.
Growth has already slowed over the first part of the year. U.S. gross domestic product declined 1.4% on an annualized basis during the first quarter. But in remarks Wednesday, Fed Chair Jerome Powell indicated that the Fed could reduce the monetary stimulus that fueled the country's strong growth last year while ensuring the sort of soft economic landing that would comfort investors. Powell described the economy as strong, a point underscored by recent, strong employment numbers, and ruled out larger rate increases, all of which buoyed equity markets.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq rose over 3% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped nearly as much.
Despite Wednesday's spike, bitcoin has spent 2022 in the doldrums, falling 17% in April alone. May, a historically strong month for crypto, had shown little pep till now as investors continued digesting a toxic combination of sinking economic indicators and global uncertainty, largely fueled by Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine.
Dan Young, head of partnerships at blockchain analytics firm Elementus, noted ongoing concerns about inflation; disappointing rates of crypto adoption, particularly in El Salvador, which made bitcoin legal tender last year; ""high-profile protocol breaches that have highlighted vulnerabilities and increased regulatory scrutiny of miners."" Yet, Young said that ""the space has shown to be incredibly resilient.""
""This resilience is what keeps crypto surging back, as we saw today with the (then) 6% spike,"" he said, adding, ""This remains an incredibly volatile emerging asset class, where conventional notions around market sentiments are continually turned upside down. So long as crypto remains resilient in the face of hacks, monetary policy and political tailwinds, it will continue to roar back life, especially given the billions of institutional capital.""
Asian headwinds for bitcoin
Over the past two months, crypto investors have been focusing on central banks' interest rate hikes and the economic fallout from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, ratcheting back their commitment to crypto and sending prices spiraling.
But recent events in Asia and other parts of the world have also weighed on markets. They offer the latest evidence that crypto is a complex organism, global by nature and subject to the same issues and events that affect other assets. Crypto, despite the contentions of its most passionate advocates, does not operate in a bubble.
Consider events from the past week in the Asia-Pacific Rim region, which have helped keep bitcoin range-bound with support at $37,000 and resistance just under $40,000. Cryptos’ desultory performance has tracked similarly range-bound pricing in Asia’s major equity markets.
The sluggishness of these assets has come amid continued draconian coronavirus-related lockdowns by the Chinese government that have hurt growth, and a record April heatwave in India that could hinder that country’s vital agricultural exports.
Meanwhile, India’s tax department is trying to raise more money from the country’s burgeoning number of crypto investors, according to a recent report by the Economic Times. Citing two unnamed sources, the business publication said the agency could take up to 20% in taxes deducted at source (TDS) on interest earned by Indian residents on foreign platforms.
TDS is income tax on money paid at the time of a transaction, and also applies to the entities making such payments. The TDS on crypto transactions is currently 1% and is part of a new crypto tax law that goes into effect July 1.
A finance bill in April introduced a 30% tax on returns or profits made by Indians from cryptocurrency investments. Trading volumes on the country’s exchanges have since nosedived some 70% in the past month.
Additional taxes on passive investments could cause a further exodus of capital from exchanges. Some Indian entrepreneurs, such as the two founders of crypto exchange WazirX, have already moved with their families to Dubai, possibly due to its friendlier crypto regulations.
The company will maintain its official headquarters in Mumbai, but WazirX said in a statement that it wanted to give “all the company employees the option to work from anywhere, subject to their comfort and convenience unless they are required to travel officially.”
Bitcoin Downtrend Stabilizes, Resistance at $40K-$43K
Bitcoin (BTC) reversed a short-term downtrend on intraday charts, albeit within a three-month trading range. Choppy price action could occur into the Asia trading day as buyers try to defend support at $37,500 ahead of sell orders near the $40,000-$43,000 resistance zone.
Still, upside appears to be limited despite the potential for intraday price swings. For example, there has been a loss of upside momentum on the weekly chart, similar to what occurred in November, which preceded a price drop.
This time, however, the weekly chart isn't overbought. That means BTC's current price range could persist until a decisive breakout above $46,000 or breakdown below $30,000 occurs.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is hovering near oversold levels, which could keep short-term buyers active, especially if momentum signals improve.
Block first-quarter 2022 earnings
9: 30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia imports/exports (March MoM)
7 p.m. HKT/SGT(11 a.m. UTC): Bank of England monetary policy report
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Hester Peirce Sounding Off on SEC’s Plan to Beef up Crypto Enforcement Staff
Securities and Exchange Commissioner Commissioner Hester Peirce joined ""First Mover"" to discuss why she opposes the agency's plan to add 20 new jobs to the crypto enforcement squad. Plus, Mikkel Morch of ARK36 provided crypto market analysis.
APE Surges, Sinks as Elon Musk Teases With Bored Ape Collage as Profile Picture: The collage was made by auction house Sotheby's (BID) for its auction last year of 101 Bored Apes.
Fed Hikes Rate at Fastest Pace in 22 Years, Will Start Shrinking Balance Sheet: The central bank is taking a hawkish stance as inflation is running at its highest level in four decades.
Wall Street Goes Crypto in the Bahamas: The inaugural Crypto Bahamas conference was a four-day flex of FTX’s expanding empire – with a new era of “corporate crypto” firmly on display.
'Revolution' Promised by Tron's Justin Sun Looks Like Clone of Terra's Algorithmic Stablecoin: Tron, an Ethereum competitor blockchain, is the latest to launch an algorithmic stablecoin inspired by the success of Terra’s UST. It has lofty goals for USDD, but not much else.
Algorand Scores FIFA Partnership, ALGO Price Surges: The blockchain will be a ""regional supporter"" for North America and Europe at this year's World Cup and an official sponsor of next year's Women's World Cup.
An Ape Ain’t Free: In Defense of Ethereum’s Fees: Pick your poison: low fees on a chain that could collapse when transaction demand outstrips blockspace (Solana), or unpredictable, sometimes very high fees on a stable chain (Ethereum).
Today's crypto explainer: 6 Top Cryptocurrencies You Can Stake: An In-Depth Guide
Other voices: The Tale of a Crypto Executive Who Wasn’t Who He Said He Was (The New York Times)
""In one remarkable stretch, Taiwan went 200 days without a COVID-19 case, and without China-style lockdowns. The secret sauce? Thanks to privacy-protecting encryption, citizens were happy to scan QR codes and “check in” at every restaurant, store, bar or cafe. They did this without revealing their personal data. It worked so well that Taiwan reduced the contract tracing cycle to an astonishing 24 minutes."" (CoinDesk contributor Jeff Wilser) ... ""Yuga Labs, for the uninitiated, is the company behind the Bored Ape Yacht Club, which remains the crypto ecosystem’s single most valuable [non-fungible token] collection. The firm didn’t even have to say what it planned to do with the money in teasing the Otherside land sale; the fact of its proximity to the Bored Apes was more than enough reason for investors to buy in. And buy in they did, in spite of a series of system-breaking failures."" (CoinDesk Media and Culture Reporter Will Gottsegen) ... “There is little sign of cooling in the greatest job seekers’ market of all time. As businesses continue to face high turnover, and the gap between demand for labor and supply widens yet further, businesses will continue to experience upward pressure on wages.” (Julia Pollak, chief economist of ZipRecruiter, in The Wall Street Journal)"
73,1163,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/06/bitcoin-liquidations-lead-400m-in-futures-losses-after-drop-to-357k/,Bitcoin Liquidations Lead $400M in Futures Losses After Drop to $35.7K,The crypto market saw its highest amount of liquidations so far this month.,2022-05-06,"Liquidations on crypto-tracked futures exceeded $400 million in the past 24 hours as bitcoin (BTC) dropped to as low as $35,700, setting the tone for a downturn in the broader crypto market.
Bitcoin futures racked up $191 million in losses alone, Coinglass data shows, suggesting most trading activity and open interest was limited to the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization. Ether (ETH) futures followed with $64 million in losses.
Liquidations occur when an exchange closes a leveraged position as a safety mechanism due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. That happens primarily in futures trading, which only tracks asset prices, as opposed to spot trading, where traders own the actual assets.
Bitcoin fell from $39,800 on Thursday morning to below the $36,000 support level following a sell-off in U.S. equities. Reports suggested the plunge came as traders priced in higher rates to curb inflation in the U.S., despite a rally on Wednesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the country would do everything in its power to curb inflation.
Major cryptocurrencies showed relatively lower losses. Futures tracking Solana’s SOL saw $9 million in losses, followed by Terra’s LUNA at $6.7 million. That was despite the two tokens losing as much as 10% in the past 24 hours – suggesting the sell-off was led by spot assets.
Among other alternative currencies, apecoin (APE) futures saw the most losses at $11 million, followed by stepn (GMT) at $10.36 million. Dogecoin (DOGE) futures lost $4.56 million after underperforming the market on Thursday.
Over $161 million in liquidations occurred on OKX, the most among crypto exchanges. Binance followed with $104 million while FTX saw $56 million, data showed."
74,83,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/06/defi-tokens-are-aprils-biggest-losers-as-revenues-fall-memecoins-outperform/,DeFi Tokens Are April's Biggest Losers as Revenues Fall; Memecoins Outperform,April saw bearish sentiment despite being a historically favorable month for cryptocurrencies.,2022-05-06,"April fared relatively well for memecoins, such as dogecoin (DOGE) and shiba inu (SHIB), but marked big losses for decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens, including aave (AAVE) and thorchain (RUNE), research by crypto exchange Kraken noted this week.
Considering bitcoin’s (BTC) 17% loss as a benchmark, the broader DeFi sector lost 34% on average, closely followed by tokens of layer 1, or base blockchains, at 33%. DeFi relies on smart contracts instead of third parties to provide financial services, such as trading, lending and borrowing, to users.
DeFi tokens have been the biggest losers on a yearly basis with over 71% in average drawdowns for investors. Ether (ETH), the native token of Ethereum over which most DeFi protocols are built, gained 3% in comparison.
DeFi-centric RUNE slumped 51%, the most in that sector, while the minimum loss was 22%. Among layer 1s, Solana’s SOL, Avalanche’s AVAX, and Near Protocol’s NEAR slumped at least 34% in the past month.
DeFi projects also saw a drop in revenues, which are earned each time a user conducts financial activity on the protocol with the protocol receiving a small cut of volumes as fees. The drop likely occurred as token prices fell and interest among investors took a hit.
Financial services platform SushiSwap saw a 29% drop in revenue, while those on DeFi exchange Balancer fell as much as 66%. Their corresponding tokens, SUSHI and BAL, have lost 45% and 18% over the past month, respectively, CoinGecko data shows.
Curve (CRV) and Uniswap (UNI) were the only DeFi projects to post revenue gains. Curve earned 51% more in April than it did in March, while Uniswap made 13% more. The strong fundamentals failed to attract buyers, however, as CRV and UNI lost 15% and 34%, respectively, in the past month.
Memecoins and exchange tokens were the relative outperformers among crypto sectors. Memecoins lost an average of 19%, while exchange tokens – such as OKX’s OKB and FTX’s FTT – lost just 13% on average. Privacy tokens also outperformed with 16% in gains, buoyed by the likes of Monero (XMR) and Zcash (ZEC).
Meanwhile, trading activity in non-fungible tokens (NFTs) increased in April compared to prior months, even as the number of users remained the same. Average daily volumes bumped 40%, while the average transaction amount increased by the same percentage as well.
Popular Ethereum-based NFT collection CryptoPunks lost favor among investors, slipping to the third spot by market capitalization as the Mutant Ape Yacht Club jumped to second place with a $2 billion capitalization."
75,895,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/08/first-mover-asia-the-bitmex-saga-continues-to-leave-fundamental-regulatory-issues-unsettled-bitcoin-continues-to-fall/,"First Mover Asia: BitMEX Saga Leaves Lingering Regulatory Questions, Bitcoin Falls","Arthur Hayes and his BitMEX co-founders must each pay a $10 million fine, but contesting the case against them might have clarified which financial regulatory agency should have primary oversight of crypto; cryptos had a rough weekend.",2022-05-08,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether plummeted over the weekend as investors continued to fret about rising interest rates and the possibility of a recession.
Insights: The BitMEX case leaves regulatory issues unsettled.
Technician's take: A weekly close below $36,247 for BTC could yield further downside targets.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $34,444 -2.1%
Ether (ETH): $2,553 -2.9%
S&P 500: 4,123 -0.5%
DJIA: 32,899 -0.2%
Nasdaq: 12,144 -1.4%
Gold: $1,881 +0.3%
A tough weekend for cryptos
The new reality of higher interest rates and heightened recessionary fears continued to ripple through crypto markets over the weekend.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $34,200, a more than 2% drop, and its lowest mark since last July. Even then, it was doing better than most major altcoins in the CoinDesk top 20 by market capitalization. Ether was changing hands at about $2,550, off roughly 3% over the same period and its lowest point since early March. Terra's luna token tumbled over 8.5% at one point and SOL and CRO were each down about 5%. AXS and TRX shone among the sea of red, rising over 1.5% and 5.5%, respectively.
""BTC has continued to be weighed down by macro pressures and the general market sentiment,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk. ""The FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) resulted in volatility, but the upside move was short-lived.""
Crypto's declines dovetailed with equity markets, which closed down Friday, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq sinking 1.4% a day after tumbling 5% – the latter its worst performance since 2020. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average fell in smaller increments, but continued their downturn following the U.S. central bank's widely expected, half-point interest rate hike last Wednesday. A day later, the Bank of England (BoE) continued its own more hawkish monetary path, raising rates a quarter of a point to their highest level in 13 years.
It was BoE's fourth-straight interest rate increase since December. Central banks in other parts of the world have followed similar strategies to tame inflation that has reached 40-year highs and threatens to rise further amid the fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Meanwhile on Friday, the latest U.S. Labor Department jobs report, which showed a better-than-expected gain of 428,000 jobs in April, underscored concerns that a historically tight jobs market would increase wages and accelerate inflation. During the first quarter of this year, U.S. employers paid workers 1.4% more on average than during the prior three-month period, according to the report. It was the biggest jump in two decades.
DiPasquale expects bitcoin to decline further, especially as monetary policy continues to contract, but doesn't see the largest crypto by market cap falling below the $25,000 to $30,000 range, even if a downturn reaches extreme proportions. But he also noted that ""a bounce in the near term cannot be ruled out"" as May's options expiry of approximately $1.3 billion on the bitcoin futures exchange Deribit approaches.
Should the BitMEX co-founders have fought the case against them?
Arthur Hayes and BitMEX both decided, separately, that they would plead guilty to the charges before them and pay fines to settle their respective cases with the feds, with Hayes and BitMEX’s other co-founders each being ordered to pay a $10 million fine at the end of last week.
This, as we’ve discussed before, is too bad, because the case against them relied on a novel interpretation of the Bank Secrecy Act and a confirmation that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) really has extraterritorial authority. This type of litigation is expensive and stressful, and so it's understandable why someone might want to call it quits instead of going through with it.
But now, as Hayes awaits sentencing, we are no further ahead in obtaining regulatory clarity than we were before. Terraform Labs’ case against the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is working its way through the legal system, but it will be months if not longer before it’s in front of a judge. In the meantime, as Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of the FTX crypto exchange, pointed out in a recent interview, the “power struggle” between the CFTC and the SEC has resulted in the regulatory environment being stalled.
“We’re not actually in a place with more federal oversight than we were in a year ago,” he told Blockworks, arguing that if the SEC and CFTC could agree on who is responsible for licensing cryptocurrency exchanges it would solve “60% of the problem.”
The CFTC claims that the Commodity Exchange Act of 1934 gives it authority over crypto, which it calls a currency, and thus allows it to regulate the derivatives market for crypto (which is what BitMEX specializes in). At the same time, the SEC’s regulatory mandate comes from testing if a specific cryptocurrency or a product involving the coin constitutes a security.
“The fact remains that digital assets like cryptocurrencies do not fit neatly into the SEC’s regulatory framework,” Bo Howell, a Ohio-based securities lawyer wrote in a post explaining the contested authority over crypto.
In theory, one should regulate the markets and one should regulate the commodity itself, but a pathway needs to be set first. SEC Chairman Gary Gensler said last month that it’s a work in progress, but hasn’t given a road map of when something like a memorandum of understanding would be released for regulating the “intertwined” market.
Ideally, this would be through legislation – in previous interviews, ex-CFTC enforcement attorney Braden Perry has warned about the dangers of regulation by enforcement, as opposed to a defined regulatory framework – but another alternative would be via legal precedent.
If Hayes or BitMEX had decided to fight the feds, they might have actually forced a resolution in the case of which agency takes the lead on regulating the crypto market.
Bitcoin Breaking Down, Support at $30K
Bitcoin broke below a short-term uptrend on Friday as momentum signals turned negative. The cryptocurrency could see further declines toward $30,000, which is near the bottom of a yearlong trading range.
BTC failed to hold $40,000 over the past few months and is down by 47% from its all-time high of nearly $69,000 last November. The long-term uptrend has weakened, which suggests upside remains limited this year.
On the weekly chart, BTC is at risk of breaking below its 100-week moving average of $36,247. A second weekly close below that level could yield downside targets toward $30,000 and then $17,823 (a roughly 80% peak-to-trough decline, on par with the 2018 crypto bear market).
Still, May is typically a seasonally strong period for stocks and cryptos. That could keep short-term buyers active at lower support levels, albeit lacking conviction to shift the recent downtrend in price.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun (Japan) bank services PMI (April)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China imports/exports (YoY/April)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China trade balance (April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Market Selloff Continues, US Adds 428K Jobs in April, Gary Vaynerchuk, Rapper Ice Cube on Crypto & Web 3
VaynerMedia CEO Gary Vaynerchuk and rapper, actor & BIG3 co-founder Ice Cube joined ""First Mover"" to discuss their collaboration to democratize sports team ownership via NFTs (non-fungible tokens) in this exclusive interview. Plus, Marcus Sotiriou of GlobalBlock provided crypto markets analysis, and Mohak Agarwal of ClayStack discussed the state of crypto staking.
Bitcoin Sell-Off Continues as Asian Markets Fall Amid Weak China Cues: Bitcoin continues losses as major markets around Asia end the week.
US Officials Add North Korea-Linked Bitcoin Mixer, More BTC and ETH Addresses to Sanctions List: The U.S. Treasury Department is ramping up efforts to ice the flow of stolen crypto from a historic $620 million hack.
9 Out of 10 Central Banks Exploring Digital Currency, BIS Says: A survey conducted in 2021 by the Bank for International Settlements found more than half of central banks are developing CBDCs or running concrete experiments.
‘Tamagotchi on Crack’: Irreverent Labs Raises $40M for NFT Cockfighting Game: Investors are backing a gaming studio whose “MechaFightClub” title is predicated on 6,969 robot chicken NFTs, according to government filings.
Inflation Will Create a Political Vacuum. Can Bitcoin Fill It?: Prices are rising at a time of pervasive distrust in government to fix the problem. That leaves the door open to bitcoin, the ultimate anti-inflation hedge.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Dune Analytics and How Does It Work?
Other voices: An Appalachian town was told a bitcoin mine would bring an economic boom. It got noise pollution and an eyesore. (Washington Post)
""Of course, metaverses will face the issue of copycat proliferation. There are dozens of metaverse projects spinning up right now, and as Multicoin Capital's Tushar Jain recently pointed out, they can all sell 'land.' But the issues raised by Nir and others in recent days are much more fundamental, and may point to flaws in the model regardless of the competitive landscape. Above all, the idea that geographic space in a virtual world will accrue value in the same way as real-world land seems to miss some truly fundamental distinctions. (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""All 27 E.U. (European Union) countries must agree to this dramatic move. Hungary and Slovakia – two of the nations most dependent on Russian energy – are holdouts on the deal. It is likely these nations will get a much longer timeline for a complete ban. More importantly, the latest E.U. move does not say anything about banning Russian natural gas imports, meaning plenty of E.U. money will still be flowing to Putin for now. But the E.U. should move swiftly and decisively this week to enact the oil ban and send a message to Putin that the atrocities Russia is committing in Ukraine are not acceptable."" (Washington Post) ... ""If you are looking for patterns in the market’s wild swings, the answer is simple: The financial markets are coming to grips with a stunning policy change by the Federal Reserve. Over the last two decades, financial markets may have become so accustomed to encouragement from the Fed that they just don’t know how to react, now that the central bank is doing its best to slow down the economy."" (The New York Times)"
76,897,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/09/michael-wagner-building-a-virtual-nation-state-in-the-metaverse/,Michael Wagner: Building a Virtual Nation-State in the Metaverse,"Meet the co-founder of Star Atlas, one of the most ambitious games in blockchain. You just have to get through the security first.",2022-05-09,"Several heavily armed security guards stand at the entrance to the Solana Hacker House in a relatively empty section of Miami’s Wynwood neighborhood one evening in early April, the same week as the big Bitcoin conference taking place in South Beach.
These aren’t your everyday security guards. With muscles rippling on top of muscles and bulletproof vests covered in ammunition, their intensity belies the very benign scene behind the metal detectors – essentially a big group of nerds discussing blockchain development in an open-air event space punctuated by Fun Dimension, a giant arcade.
But those nerds might be holding lots of crypto.
This article is part of Road to Consensus, a series highlighting speakers and the big ideas they will discuss at Consensus 2022, CoinDesk's festival June 9-12 in Austin, Texas. Learn more.
The nerd I’m here to meet is Michael Wagner, co-founder and CEO of Star Atlas, a massively multiplayer online (MMO) game his team has been building on the Solana blockchain. It made its debut in January.
It’s an extremely ambitious project and still in its earliest stages (about 160,000 people are in the Star Atlas channel on the Discord messaging app so far, Wagner says). Players can access the game’s first module including limited gameplay and NFT (non-fungible token) asset buying.
Star Atlas encompasses a sci-fi plot-line unfolding in the year 2620, with graphics fitting for a Triple-A (read: high-budget) game. Three warring factions compete for valuable resources on the discovered planet Iris, using the in-game currency Atlas to purchase ships and other virtual items to meet their goals and live their virtual lives.
The game’s meta-currency is Polis, which players can use to determine the game’s governance through layers of hierarchical decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs). From local to regional to top level, they mimic something like the structure of federal, state and local governments.
“We think about what we're building at Star Atlas as almost like an independent nation-state,” Wagner says after finding me between two separate sets of security guards, one patrolling the Hacker House’s entrance and the other the VIP area (which we can’t enter even though Wagner has credentials, since I don’t and security isn’t taking any chances).
People will even be able to earn a living through Star Atlas' play-to-earn capabilities, à la Axie Infinity but with endless possibilities that the players can create themselves. If players can’t afford or earn enough Atlas to buy their own spaceship, someone else in the game may decide to become a sort of Uber driver in space, shuttling them from one planet to another in exchange for the game’s tokens, which they can ultimately convert to fiat if they want.
“We're building a global country of sorts and a virtual economy for people to participate in this grandiose vision,” Wagner admits, “but there’s real potential there.”
Who is Wagner to assert such a grandiose vision? In red pants and a white Miami-themed Solana shirt covering broad shoulders, he introduces himself first as a “huge advocate for bitcoin” with a disarming smile as we take a seat at an umbrella-covered wooden table (surrounded by other umbrella-covered wooden tables on a sea of fake grass).
Wagner has only very recently relocated to Miami from another party city, Las Vegas – but he’s here to build his game.
“There’s energy and a vibe here that’s very supportive and conducive to building in crypto,” he says. The Solana Hacker House alone attracted somewhere between 1,000 and 5,000 people on the day we meet, he estimates.
Pablo Quiroga, Atlas' co-founder and chief revenue officer, moved to the city a few months prior, and Estefan Ramirez Vazquez, the company’s newly hired head of growth, lives in Miami now, too.
But the company is global, with nearly 200 employees spanning 26 countries, from New Zealand to central Africa.
“Discord is essentially our headquarters,” Wagner explains. Though it’s difficult to attract the limited number of talented, in-demand Rust engineers to any given blockchain company, Star Atlas hasn’t had much of a problem. Leadership gets emails daily, Wagner says, from qualified engineers asking to work with the team, and has so far hired 45, most of whom predominantly develop blockchain products.
***
Wagner himself is not a software engineer. “Gaming and PC building was my way into crypto,” he says.
In fact, he and his high school friends in the 1990s were so into gaming and computers they formed a group around their shared passion called the LANarchists. (“We were all really nerdy … I’m actually proud of it,” he says, looking like he’s fully grown out of his nerdom and started regularly hitting the gym.)
About a decade post-high school, one of the guys from that group told Wagner about crypto and mining using graphics processing units.
“He had built this milk crate rig with three GPUs in it,” Wagner recalls. “And I was looking at that, like, this is definitely something I can do.”
At the time, Wagner was working in traditional finance, essentially managing portfolios. He immediately saw the parallels between the markets he was working in and the emerging markets in crypto. By 2015, he had left his “regular job” and switched to working in crypto full time, starting his first company in Nevada in 2016, called Tokes. From the name, it’s easy to tell that the company sat at the “intersection of crypto and cannabis,” Wagner describes – an especially tricky intersection at the time.
“It was a tough sell,” he says. Even though cannabis had become legal in Nevada, it remained illegal on the federal level, meaning retail companies couldn’t use the traditional banking system. Providing those companies with a crypto token seemed like a natural solution to the problem, but crypto was stigmatized back then, coming off its underground druggy associations with Silk Road, and cannabis sales licenses were limited in Nevada. No one wanted to risk losing their own licenses by accepting cryptocurrencies.
“This introduced an optional, tokenized, closed loop financial ecosystem for cannabis,” Wagner says. “What we would effectively do is create an in-state, private stablecoin.”
Fatefully, that bill passed not long before COVID-19, and just when Tokes was picking up momentum, the team’s work was put on hold. Wagner and his team members started asking themselves, “What else is going on in crypto right now?” The answers were “DeFi (decentralized finance), NFTs and blockchain gaming,” Wagner says. “And we’re all gamers.”
Plus, as an active yield farmer in DeFi, Wagner saw the inherent gamification in borrowing and moving funds to find the optimal spread. He goes so far as to call DeFi “the first gaming product in crypto … It’s not running around with a sword and killing a monster, but there were some gameplay mechanics.”
Wagner credits Daniel Floyd, now Star Atlas' chief product officer, for much of the game’s concept. He’s largely responsible for the plot centered on the three fighting, interplanetary factions, the alien-esque Oni, the armored Uster, and the humanoid Mud. But their first company Tokes is still breathing – active but “somewhat dormant,” as Wagner puts it. They even plan to possibly incorporate it into Star Atlas.
“We are going to be bringing Tokes as a craft cannabis community into the metaverse,” Wagner says, by creating a product players can “use in the game.” When I ask if there’s an “IRL (in real life) component” to that, Wagner elaborates.
“There's a very real potential and high likelihood that people start consuming their digital purchases through 3D immersive environments instead of shopping on a 2D website. You're logged into your avatar, maybe you're playing a game, maybe you're hanging out with some friends, and while you're sitting there socializing, you're also going through your shopping list,” he says. “Then you pay with digital currency, and it gets delivered to your physical residence. There's nothing preventing that from happening.”
***
Buying physical cannabis in a virtual store in Star Atlas is still ways away from becoming a reality. In a different section of the Hacker House, past empanada-hawking food trucks and among other “NFT Metaverse” exhibitors, the gaming company has a booth with several screens showing Star Atlas' high-quality animation – most of what the company has to publicly show for its work so far.
The ships look like vehicles out of “Star Wars,” or perhaps the video game Star Citizen, which inspired Daniel Floyd’s vision for the game. Quiroga is hanging by the screens, and he describes first meeting Wagner back in Nevada. While standing behind him on line in a coffee shop, Quiroga commented on his cycling keychain – they’re both cyclists and started riding together, and during one of those earlier rides, Wagner introduced Quiroga to blockchain.
Wagner seems to have sold the blockchain to Quiroga as easily as he sold the idea of Star Atlas to Solana’s co-founders (“I don't think it would be out of line for me to say that Star Atlas is one of the flagship projects being built on Solana,” Wagner says) and brought on crypto exchange FTX as the game’s on-boarding partner (Wagner first considered building the game on Solana after hearing FTX co-founder Sam Bankman-Fried discuss it on a podcast).
Ultimately, the Star Atlas team went with Solana because they see it as a “highly scalable” network. That’s key, because Wagner said he believes “gaming will bring the next billion users into crypto.”
He also brings up the ability to create more complex systems in Solana, which offers low transaction costs along with limited lag time during gaming scenarios. “If you're running around and you shoot a bullet and it doesn't shoot and then you die, you're mad,” he says.
The game has to run smoothly – the point, after all, is to create a Triple-A game on a blockchain that will appeal to current gamers, crypto natives and play-to-earners in developing countries.
Plus, Wagner and his team want the game to be as immersive as possible – both a fun escape for players, but also truly another world they can live in, a place to buy cannabis and govern their communities and have a virtual job where they can make real money.
“All activities that are taking place online right now, they're going to be reproduced in some way in these immersive, three-dimensional digital worlds,” Wagner says.
That means the problems that exist in the physical world can easily translate to Star Atlas. For example, the plan is for assets in Star Atlas to cost anywhere from the fiat equivalent of $15 to massive, multi-purpose ships that could auction for up to $5 million or $10 million, Wagner speculates. Real-world wealth, in other words, will influence social stratification in the game – but he sees a Web 3 solution for that.
“This is where crypto and Web 3 is significantly powerful, because the idea of pooled capital is going to be very possible via smart contracts in a trustless fashion,” he explains.
Players could form collectives to buy expensive ships as a group, and wealthy ship owners can employ other players, paying them real money to run their $10 million ship in the metaverse. While Wagner admits none of this can solve social stratification, the game can “enable people to collaborate more freely.”
This is all a lot to digest – a metaverse that’s a totally fictional sci-fi game where people can get real jobs and, yes, even hire Web 3-inclined musicians to host real (but digital) concerts that people/avatars can attend if they hold the right digital tokens that they paid for with IRL fiat currency. They can form DAOs to buy ships or make political decisions within this fake reality that can potentially make or break their real-life fortunes.
These are the many possibilities Wagner rattles off as we sit in this snow globe of a Solana-themed pop-up in the middle of a desolate section of Miami heavily guarded by security, none of whom we can see from our seat on the fake grass. It all makes you think – is it a problem if people become too far removed from their physical environments, too immersed in a false reality to the point where the line between what’s real and what’s fabricated blurs beyond recognition?
For Wagner, that’s not a concern. “Creating a place for people to escape is probably beneficial,” he says. “If you talk to Elon Musk – and I would agree with this – there's a high probability that we live in a simulation anyway.”
Star Atlas might as well be the next iteration. “We're building something that we believe will live 100 years or more, if done right,” Wagner says. “It’s a step in the process of getting people into this new world.”"
77,896,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-holds-30k-after-turbulent-week-altcoins-trade-up/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Holds $30K After Turbulent Week, Altcoins Trade Up","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 13, 2022.",2022-05-13,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Market Moves: BTC and altcoins trade in the green over the last 24 hours. ADA, SOL and AVAX make 15%+ gains.
Feature: Continuing with the Terra saga, we take a look at the latest exchanges to delist Terra's LUNA and UST.
Bitcoin (BTC) is up 8% over the last 24 hours, climbing back above the $30,000 mark after dropping to lows of $25,000 on Thursday. The world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has still lost over 50% of its value from its all-time high reached in November 2021 around $69,000.
After one of the most turbulent weeks in history for the market, the total crypto market cap has decreased over $300 billion over the past seven days. Multiple assets crashed over 30% during the week, but have started to regain ground early Friday.
And that doesn't even begin to touch the disaster that was Terra's LUNA as the UST stablecoin lost its $1 peg. LUNA tumbled 100% on the week.
Solana's SOL token, which took a steep hit on Thursday as the wider market fell, trading as low as $35, is now up 15% on the day and trading at around $51. Cardano's ADA is trading up 20% on the day, and Avalanche’s AVAX is up 24%.
In traditional markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell for a sixth straight day, and the S&P 500 took a 19.4% hit from its high of 4,800 in January. The S&P 500 is now at 3,868, and according to a popular rule of thumb used by investors, a dip of 20% or more signals the start of a bear market.
Robinhood (HOOD) shares soared after a new filing revealed that Sam Bankman-Fried, CEO of crypto exchange FTX, took a 7.6% stake in the company.
According to Florian Giovannacci, head of trading at Covario AG, the crypto market rebound over the last 24 hours for BTC and altcoins is “more a technical bounce following over the top bearishness/capitulation and leveraged short positioning being liquidated (especially for alts).”
He said that today’s increase in price for crypto assets will “definitely help sentiment but there’s no news out there to really mark a definitive change of mood.”
Looking forward, despite trading in the green for a number of assets on the day, Giovannacci said correlation to U.S. equity is a key factor for BTC’s price.
“Until we see CPI data improving, bears will be in the driving seat.”
Terra Blockchain Resumes Following 9-Hour Halt The Terra blockchain has resumed activity following a halt of around nine hours while validators plotted a route out of its ongoing crisis.
Elon Musk Puts Twitter Take Over on Hold, Twitter Shares Tank The landmark deal that would see Elon Musk takeover Twitter and make it private has hit a stumbling block as Musk wants to verify the amount of fake accounts.
Nomura Starts Trading Crypto Derivatives, Joining Rivals Goldman, JPMorgan Nomura carried out bitcoin futures and options trades with derivatives exchange CME Group and crypto market maker Cumberland DRW.
Binance, OKX Delists Terra's LUNA and UST Citing User Protection The two crypto exchanges ended trading related to the Terra tokens after UST lost its peg and LUNA slumped more than 99%.
Cardano’s ADA Jumps 40% to Lead Recovery in Major Cryptos; Sentiment Remains in 'Extreme Fear' Crypto market cap rose more than 13% in the past 24 hours even though inflation concerns persist.
Crypto Related Stocks in Asia See Volatile Trading Amid Bitcoin Recovery Traditional market investors risked off publicly traded companies related to the crypto sector amid a drop in prices this week.
LUNA, UST Still Available on FTX and Other Exchanges Despite Terra Blockchain Halt Transactions conducted during the blockchain halt are not considered to be final as they can’t be settled.
Terra Validators Halt Blockchain to Gin Up Next Steps The blockchain was halted earlier Thursday after the governance token LUNA fell in price.
Yellen Call for 'Responsible' Crypto Innovation Is Right Janet Yellen, recently speaking at American University, made erudite, sensible remarks about the right approach to regulate digital currencies and assets, innovation and the policies surrounding them.
By Shaurya Malwa and Jamie Crawley
Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, suspended spot trading for LUNA and UST against its own stablecoin BUSD on Friday after rival OKX said it planned to end spot listings of UST and delisted margin and borrowing services for Terra ecosystem tokens such as LUNA, anchor (ANC) and mirror (MIR).
""An exponential amount of new LUNA were minted due to flaws in the design of the Terra protocol,"" Binance founder Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao said in an explanatory tweet. ""Some of our users, unaware of the large amounts of newly minted LUNA outside the exchange, started to buy LUNA again, without understanding that as soon as deposits are allowed, the price will likely crash further. Due to these significant risks, we suspended trading.""
OKX planned to terminate exchange-traded UST trading for bitcoin (BTC), avalanche (AVAX), solana (SOL) and ether (ETH) as of 10:00 UTC, adding to earlier cancellations of the margin trading and borrowing function for LUNA, ANC and MIR. Perpetual swaps were suspended at 8:00 UTC.
“Seismic crypto market movements like we’ve seen this week tend to deliver some pretty brutal lessons,” explained Lennix Lai, an OKX director, in an email. “We’re seeing a flight away from direct investment in DeFi protocols in the wake of UST breakdown.”
“The reality is that centralized exchanges are set up to provide much greater levels of protection for users whatever the markets are doing,” Lai said.
UST slumped to as low as 22 cents earlier this week amid a run on the currency. The prices of its related LUNA token dropped 99.7% to pennies on Thursday from levels above $60 earlier this week.
LUNA and other tokens continue to trade on crypto exchanges FTX and Gate at writing time.
""Withdrawals for LUNA and UST will open when the network becomes stable,"" Binance said.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Lyllah Ledesma and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
78,900,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/okx-delists-terras-luna-and-ust-citing-user-protection/,OKX Delists Terra's LUNA and UST Citing User Protection,"Both OKX and Binance ended trading related to the Terra tokens after UST lost its dollar peg and LUNA slumped more than 99%, but Binance has since resumed trading in LUNA.",2022-05-13,"Crypto exchange OKX said it planned to end spot listings of UST and delisted margin and borrowing services for Terra ecosystem tokens such as LUNA, anchor (ANC) and mirror (MIR).
Rival Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, also suspended spot trading for LUNA and UST against its own stablecoin BUSD on Friday, but founder Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao said in a tweet at 15:50 UST that trading in LUNA has since been resumed.
OKX planned to terminate exchange-traded UST trading for bitcoin (BTC), avalanche (AVAX), solana (SOL) and ether (ETH) as of 10:00 UTC, adding to earlier cancellations of the margin trading and borrowing function for LUNA, ANC and MIR. Perpetual swaps were suspended at 8:00 UTC.
“Seismic crypto market movements like we’ve seen this week tend to deliver some pretty brutal lessons,” Lennix Lai, an OKX director, said in an email. “We’re seeing a flight away from direct investment in DeFi (decentralized finance) protocols in the wake of UST breakdown.
“The reality is that centralized exchanges are set up to provide much greater levels of protection for users whatever the markets are doing,” Lai said.
In explaining the reasons for Binance's suspension, Zhao initially tweeted that ""an exponential amount of new LUNA were minted due to flaws in the design of the Terra protocol. Some of our users, unaware of the large amounts of newly minted LUNA outside the exchange, started to buy LUNA again, without understanding that as soon as deposits are allowed, the price will likely crash further. Due to these significant risks, we suspended trading.""
UST slumped to as low as 22 cents earlier this week amid a run on the cryptocurrency. The prices of its related LUNA token dropped 99.7% to pennies on Thursday from levels above $60 earlier this week.
LUNA and other tokens continue to trade on crypto exchanges FTX and Gate at writing time.
""Withdrawals for LUNA and UST will open when the network becomes stable,"" Binance said.
UPDATE (May 13, 11:31 UTC ): Adds Binance suspension to headline, throughout.
UPDATE (May 13, 16:34 UTC ): Updated headline and story with information about Binance's resumption of trading of LUNA."
79,334,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/luna-ust-still-available-on-ftx-and-other-exchanges-despite-terra-blockchain-halt/,"LUNA, UST Still Available on FTX and Other Exchanges Despite Terra Blockchain Halt",Transactions conducted during the blockchain halt are not considered to be final because they can’t be settled.,2022-05-13,"Despite a second halt of the Terra blockchain by its validators, the protocol’s LUNA token and UST algorithmic stablecoin remain available to trade on FTX and other minor exchanges as of late morning Asia time.
FTX and China-focused exchange Gate.io continue to trade the luna token.
Between its USD and USDT trading pairs, FTX has nearly $445 million in volume during the last 24 hours, according to CoinGecko.
Meanwhile, Gate.io reports $84 million in volume during the last 24-hours for luna.
Thai-based exchange Bitazza was trading both luna and UST up until early Friday morning Asia time, then pulled the plug on both.
UST continues to be traded at FTX and KuCoin, with $678 million in volume during the last 24 hours at FTX and $248 million at KuCoin.
Binance and many other major exchanges halted trading of LUNA and UST as both neared $0 and the Terra blockchain was shut down the first time.
It’s unclear if the Terra blockchain will ever be restarted, meaning that the trades may never be settled and traders unable to cash out.
UPDATE (May 13, 17:06 UTC ): According to a tweet from Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao, deposits, withdrawals and trading of the tokens has resumed on that company's platform."
80,1158,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/17/first-mover-asia-usdc-hasnt-flippened-usdt-but-trader-preferences-are-changing-cryptos-rise-despite-bearishness/,"First Mover Asia: USDC Hasn’t ‘Flippened’ USDT, but Trader Preferences Are Changing; Cryptos Rise Despite Bearishness","A Glassnode analyst suggests the collapse of the UST token has triggered a change in investors' stablecoin preferences; bitcoin holds above $30,000.",2022-05-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos see green, but market sentiment remains bearish.
Insights: Investors change their stablecoin preferences.
Technician's take: BTC is on track to register a positive momentum signal on the daily chart.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,466 +1.6%
Ether (ETH): $2,092 +3.1%
Bitcoin and other major cryptos see green
Bitcoin and other major cryptos were largely in the green late Tuesday as the market continued to solidify, but the small surge seemed more a temporary reprieve than sea change in bearish sentiment that intensified last week during the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin implosion.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading over $30,400, a more than 1% gain over the past 24 hours. Ether was up about 3% during the same period, maintaining its most frequent, recent perch above $2,000. ALGO and MATIC each rose over 7%. SOL, CRO and ADA recovered from midday drops and were up about 4%.
""The crash of [Terra’s] UST stablecoin has heralded the end of a momentous bull run,"" Yield App CEO and founder Tim Frost wrote in an email. ""The market is 54% below"" its ""all-time high and won’t be climbing far any time soon as we face what looks set to be a painfully prolonged bear market.""
Cryptos traced equity markets, which rose amid encouraging U.S. retail spending and industrial production reports and cautiously optimistic remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. The tech-focused Nasdaq jumped 2.7%, while the the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 2% and 1.3%, respectively.
The U.S. Commerce Department said on Tuesday that retail sales had risen 0.9% in April, the fourth consecutive monthly increase and evidence that surging inflation has not completely damped consumers' appetites for goods and services. The report noted increased spending on electronics, cars and clothing, even as consumers spent less on gas, which has been a primary source of the recent months' cost run-ups. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said industrial production rose 1.1% in April, also its fourth straight monthly gain.
In remarks at The Wall Street Journal's Future of Everything Festival on Tuesday, Powell called “restoring price stability a nonnegotiable need."" ""It is something we have to do,"" he said, adding that he was hopeful the Fed could tame inflation without triggering huge increases in unemployment or a deep recession. ""It is a challenging task, made more challenging the last couple months because of global events,” Powell said. “It is challenging because unemployment is very low already and because inflation is very high.”
Yield App's Frost said the collapse of UST was ""nothing short of harrowing.""
""Any thorough due diligence assessment would have revealed that this asset could not withstand a bank run,"" he wrote. ""And withstand a bank run it truly did not.""
Still, he added optimistically that other protocols would learn from the ""UST disaster, lessons that will use the resulting bear market to develop the next generation of decentralized finance products. When we enter the next bull run, the fruits of their labor will be the world’s new financial system.""
S&P 500: 4,882 +2%
DJIA: 32,654 +1.3%
Nasdaq: 11,984 +2.7%
Gold: $1,814 -0.6%
Investors change their stablecoin preferences
LUNA and UST’s collapse is still reverberating through the broader crypto market. Bitcoin has fallen significantly in recent months and is now seemingly stuck around the $30,000 mark.
The most significant impact on the market isn’t an evisceration of crypto pricing from the start of the year, a trend that the collapse accelerated, but rather a brewing crisis of confidence in the stablecoin sector.
Data from Glassnode shows an inverse relationship between issuances of tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC) as well as Binance USD (BUSD). Tether tokens are exiting circulation via redemption (being exchanged for cash) while more USDC and BUSD are being issued because of demand.
“The redemptions of USDT were around $7.5 billion, whilst the supply of USDC grew by $2.64 billion and BUSD by $1 billion. So all in all we had around $3.64 billion in supply expansion, and $7.5 billion in contraction, meaning a net outflow of $3.76 billion,” James Check, an analyst at Glassnode, wrote to CoinDesk in an email.
DAI, another algorithmic stablecoin but structured differently than UST, also saw a decline in circulating supply by 24.4%, as $2.067 billion was burned.
“What we are potentially watching is a changing preference for which stablecoins the market prefers,” Check said.
Check suspects a large trader or traders used the momentum of the ""UST depeg"" narrative to lean on the USDT peg in the hopes it would generate downside fear, which he believes it did.
“We saw the distressed sale of the [Luna Foundation Guard’s] 80K BTC, and then a few days later, USDT pairs on some exchanges come under pressure, making for a perfect storm for a sophisticated short side trade,” he said.
But it’s important to note that despite all this, the USDT dollar peg quickly recovered. A large, rapid volume of redemptions happened in a short time, and the system kept functioning.
“As stablecoins become increasingly integrated as base layer infrastructure in the market, the shockwaves of a de-pegging event, especially in the largest stablecoin USDT will have widespread impacts,” Check wrote in a note published last week. “This event will also no doubt attract the regulatory spotlight at a greater pace and urgency.”
USDC has a long way to go before it ever has a change of ""flippening"" tether. But the data can’t be ignored: With a crisis of confidence brewing for stablecoins, it’s USDC (and BUSD) that the traders want, not tether.
Bitcoin Rises to $30K; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) continues to trade around $30,000, which is near the bottom of a year-long price range. The cryptocurrency appears to be stabilizing, although resistance at $33,000 and $35,000 could stall an upswing in price.
BTC was roughly flat over the past 24 hours and is down by 24% over the past 30 days. The recent sell-off extended bitcoin's short-term downtrend despite oversold conditions on the chart.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, reached on May 12 when BTC declined toward $25,300. Typically, oversold signals precede a price bounce, similar to what occurred in late January.
Further, on the daily chart, BTC on track to register a positive momentum signal, per the MACD indicator for the first time since late March. Still, momentum signals remain negative on the weekly and monthly charts, which suggests limited upside from here.
Permissionless DeFi Conference
G7 finance ministers meeting
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia wage price index (MoM/YoY/Q1)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Interest in Crypto, Blockchain Use Cases, UST Depegging, BTC and ETH Hover Above Support Levels
Ernst & Young Principal and Global Innovation Leader Paul Brody joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the state of crypto following the UST and luna crashes. Also, can blockchain help to address the global supply chain crisis? Plus, Andre Portilho of BTG Pactual provided crypto markets analysis and Ron Hammond of the Blockchain Association discussed crypto regulation.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange: At Japan's Liquid exchange, recently acquired by FTX, warnings were ignored, breaches unreported and employees berated and cursed at, insiders say.
Big-Money Investors Who Boosted Bitcoin’s Price Might Now Crash It: Everyone celebrated the arrival of institutional investors to the bitcoin market, as their rising adoption helped send prices soaring. Now, with correlations to traditional markets at an all-time high, fingers are pointing over the market swoon.
Terraform's Legal Team Quits Amid Terra Stablecoin Fallout: Marc Goldich, Lawrence Florio and Noah Axler left the Terra ecosystem backer in May, according to their LinkedIn profiles.
A16z Addresses Downturn in Inaugural State of Crypto Report: The report discussed Web 3 trends and why Ethereum remains the dominant blockchain.
Blockchain Investment Firm Fortis Digital Raising $100M Fund: The fund focuses on altcoins and requires potential investors to have a minimum $2.5 million net worth.
Meltem Demirors: 'If I Dress Like a Disco Ball, Let Me': She's a crypto OG. Stylish. Unapologetic. And a priestess of her own cult. Demirors is a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
Today's crypto explainer: What Can You Buy With Bitcoin?
Other voices: Cryptoverse: Stablecoins wend wobbly way into the unknown (Reuters)
“Web 3’s open access eliminates the power hierarchy, enabling creators to take control of their businesses. Spencer (Dinwiddie] noted that 'our ""New Money"" conversations taught us about the pressing urgency for creators to be able to monetize directly, without the interference of a third-party,' and that newly developed, decentralized platforms provide more efficient avenues for transactions between creators and fans.” (Calaxy COO and co-founder Solo Ceesay) ... “We have both the tools and the resolve to get inflation back down,” [Federal Reserve chief Jerome] Powell said during an appearance at The Wall Street Journal’s Future of Everything Festival, adding that the Fed is tightly focused on the task. The central bank is raising interest rates as part of its most aggressive effort in decades to curb upward price pressures. “We need to see inflation coming down in a convincing way,” Mr. Powell said. “Until we do, we’ll keep going.” (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Retail sales – a measure of spending at stores, online and in restaurants – rose a seasonally adjusted 0.9% last month compared with March, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. That marked the fourth straight month of higher retail spending."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
81,220,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/17/how-not-to-run-a-cryptocurrency-exchange/,How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange,Subtitle not found,2022-05-17,"From the outside, Japanese exchange Liquid looks like a crypto success story. Trading powerhouse FTX recently acquired it for an undisclosed price estimated to be somewhere between $140 million and $200 million.
But former Liquid employees describe a chaotic workplace (even by crypto standards) with questionable security and compliance.
For example, sources say that executives downplayed some information security breaches, did not disclose others, failed to adequately address low-level insider theft and prematurely stopped investigations into last year’s $90 million hack.
Liquid bought its own QASH token to maintain the price through part of the 2018 bear market and double-counted trades when reporting its volumes, former employees said.
Senior management offered IOUs for Telegram’s never-issued GRAM tokens and, according to sources, ignored internal compliance team concerns. Liquid lost millions on the offering.
The December 2018 company Christmas party was awkward, to say the least, for employees of the Japanese cryptocurrency exchange known as Liquid.
Mike Kayamori, co-founder and CEO, wore a Santa Claus suit to the party, held at Liquid’s office, about five minutes from Tokyo Station. About 50 employees were at the party, some of them with their children. A Black employee dressed up as a reindeer.
Kayamori asked the employee, whose wife was in attendance, to get on his hands and knees. The CEO then mounted him like a horse.
People stood with their drinks and watched. Holiday music played in the background.
“He obviously didn’t look happy. He was trying to do his best,” an eyewitness said of the employee.
Shortly afterward, Kayamori apologized to colleagues.
“I wanted a reindeer to cheer up the crowd with me,” he wrote in a message posted on the company’s Slack on Dec. 20, 2018, reviewed by CoinDesk. “I had not even realized what a terrible thing I [had] done until this was brought up to me later.” Kayamori added that he had apologized directly to the employee (who soon left the company).
“I preach diversity and unity,” Kayamori continued. “I will always remember today as the humbling day I let everyone down and that I need to grow as a human being.”
The incident speaks to management problems that long bubbled under the surface at Liquid.
“Of all the things Mike did, I don’t think that was the worst thing,” the eyewitness said. “This was minor.”
From the outside, Liquid looks like a crypto success story, albeit with some bumps along the road. It was one of the first exchanges to be licensed in Japan, which boasts some of the world’s toughest regulations for crypto.
Like many exchanges, Liquid weathered hacks, including a $90 million theft last August that forced it to get an emergency loan from crypto derivatives exchange powerhouse FTX. Led by billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried, FTX later agreed to buy Liquid, legally known as Quoine (pronounced “coin”), for an undisclosed price in a deal that closed on April 4 of this year.
Over the past five weeks, CoinDesk interviewed more than a dozen former Liquid employees and other individuals familiar with the exchange’s inner workings. Nearly all of them asked for anonymity for fear of reprisal.
Taken together, the interviews and internal documents reviewed by CoinDesk paint a picture of a chaotic workplace, even by the standards of a global crypto industry known for its hard-charging personalities and loosey-goosey corporate cultures.
Kayamori's management decisions and casual attitude toward information security may have led to security breaches, more than one of which were not adequately disclosed to customers, four former employees said. Employees were berated and cursed at, and their concerns about regulatory, cybersecurity and business risks were ignored.
While some employees tried to do right by users, management was known to dismiss their efforts.
“There are forces of order and good trying to make things happen, but the existing culture has an immune system seeking out and destroying them,” a former employee said.
CoinDesk emailed Kayamori for comment on whether Liquid complied with regulatory expectations, and whether he had anything to say to former employees who expressed their unhappiness with the company’s work culture and his leadership. He did not respond.
In 2017, Japan was one of the most active places in the world for crypto. It was one of the first countries to regulate cryptocurrency exchanges, requiring them to register with the Japanese Financial Services Agency (JFSA). Japan also introduced a legal definition of “virtual currency” in its Payment Services Act.
“There was huge retail interest, progressive regulators and huge potential for the country to become a real leader in the space,” said Steve Lee, an investment director and head of the Asia-Pacific region at BlockTower Capital.
Liquid was in the pole position. Founded as Quoine in 2014, the exchange pitched itself as a company that did things by the book. It was among the first batch of companies to receive a license and ran one of the country’s largest exchanges. Besides Japan, it had a presence in Singapore and teams based in the Philippines and Vietnam.
The company initially operated two exchanges: Quoinex, which facilitated trading between fiat currency and bitcoin (BTC), and Qryptos, which handled only crypto-to-crypto trades. It later merged the two, rebranding under the name Liquid.
Kayamori had a prestigious resume, having studied at Harvard Business School and the University of Tokyo and worked at SoftBank, the Japanese investment conglomerate. Co-founder Mario Gomez Lozada had worked at financial giants Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse (CS). Kayamori dealt with the business while Lozada handled the technology and development of financial products.
An early employee remembers working out of a small office consisting of one large room that could fit 10 people comfortably and three meeting rooms, one of which became an extension of the office due to the lack of space.
“Mike was a reasonable leader when times were good,” another former employee said.
Kayamori talked a lot about high-level concepts such as “financial inclusion” and “democratizing finance,” the same former employee said. “He had a vague vision, but it was largely detached from reality.”
Then, as now, crypto was an illiquid market compared with traditional stocks or bonds, meaning a large order to buy or sell a coin could be hard to fill and could mightily sway market prices. Kayamori claimed Liquid could solve this problem through a pooling system he called the “World Book.”
There are hundreds of crypto exchanges around the world, each with its own order book, or list of offers to buy or sell a given coin at a specific price. Kayamori wanted to aggregate orders from global exchanges into one order book. An offer to sell a token on the U.S. exchange Coinbase (COIN), for example, could be matched with a buy offer on Liquid if both listed the asset.
Investors believed in the vision. The company raised roughly $105 million worth of the cryptocurrency ether (ETH) by distributing its native QASH token in an initial coin offering (ICO) in November 2017.
At its peak, Liquid’s community of followers, across the main group in the Telegram messaging app, the subreddit forum on Reddit and social channels ran into the tens of thousands. Many of these were QASH holders.
As an exchange token, QASH could be used to pay trading fees on the issuer’s platform. In a video from the time, Lozada said that other crypto exchanges were willing to adopt QASH and that banks and financial institutions would benefit from doing so. But only a handful of other crypto exchanges listed it.
QASH was created as an ERC-20 standard token running on the Ethereum network, but the project’s white paper (something between a prospectus and a manifesto) called for the creation of a brand-new blockchain by the second quarter of 2019. Migrating to its own blockchain would boost QASH’s value, Lozada said in the video.
Even in Liquid’s glory days, things weren’t quite as they seemed. Kayamori claimed publicly in March 2018 that the company was connected with more than 17 other exchanges. However, in internal Slack messages reviewed by CoinDesk, an employee wrote that “none of the 17 exchanges ever agreed to be part of the external” World Book and that Liquid could access Coinbase’s liquidity only by paying the U.S. company a fee. “We have no official agreement from them,” this employee said.
That year, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) went after many token issuers for selling unregistered securities to American buyers, but Liquid appears to have not been on its radar. Internal records reviewed by CoinDesk show that 217 individuals from the U.S. bought QASH tokens in the ICO. Those U.S. citizens who took part in the sale bought 10,294,721 tokens at a price of 24 cents each, for a total of $2 million.
The ICO’s success meant that Liquid had a native token and a road map. The token didn’t tank right after its debut, as many others did. The company had cash to spend.
“It meant that Mike was promising all these things,” said a former employee, who called the ICO “a blessing and a curse.” QASH reached an all-time high of $2.45 on Jan. 14, 2018.
That same month, hackers made off with $520 million in funds from Japanese exchange Coincheck. The hack had reverberations for every exchange in Japan.
“It scared off institutional investors as well as retail investors, slowed down crypto development and brought tougher regulation,” Lee said. “The crypto market in Japan is still struggling to recover from that hack.”
Liquid found itself operating in one of the world’s most tightly regulated jurisdictions for crypto. The JFSA launched a round of inspections and stiffened the rules.
To secure user funds, the regulator stipulated that most customers’ assets be held in cold wallets – with the private keys, or passwords, stored in a hardware device disconnected from the internet or written on a piece of paper locked in a safe.
The last major crypto bear market began in early 2018. Liquid’s financial health was “dented by the crypto market but solvent to the point where they could run for another year and a half at that burn rate,” a former employee said. The company had “at least tens of millions of dollars,” this person said.
The exchange was growing, with staff numbers across offices ballooning from around 50 in 2017 to over 300 in 2018. Senior management decided it was time to move to an office that reflected the company’s future.
In June 2018, Japan employees moved to Kyobashi Edogrand, a glass-and-steel building in one of Tokyo’s most expensive districts. The company occupied a space of over 6,500 square feet, paying around $200,000 per month in rent, two former employees said. The rate was double the city’s average.
During this period, Liquid followed best security practices, two former employees recalled. The office featured a heavily secured “signing room” for crypto transfers. Fingerprints were needed to enter the air-gapped room (where the network was isolated from unsecured ones) and cameras watched from inside and outside. Large withdrawals required sign-off from one employee in Japan and another in the Vietnam office, and these were processed every few hours.
On June 22, 2018, Japanese regulators handed out business improvement orders to the Liquid exchange and five other crypto companies, requiring them to improve their risk management practices. Liquid’s improvement order hindered efforts to do new business in Japan, where half of its client base resided.
Kayamori didn’t address the compliance issues, and instead blamed employees for not generating more revenue in Japan, four former employees said.
The co-founders started feuding. Liquid informally split into two teams as each founder tried to push the other out, six former employees said.
“Their flaws almost balanced each other out in the beginning,” a source close to Liquid said. “It got to the point where they couldn’t even be in the same room.”
“Mario had grown frustrated by the slow pace of development and the repeated failures,” one former employee explained. Lozada believed that Kayamori had put the wrong people in key positions, another said.
Lozada wanted to create Qryptos, a crypto-to-crypto exchange, to supplement the exchange’s primary offering of facilitating trades between crypto and fiat currencies, the former employee explained. Kayamori decided to put a young and inexperienced staff member in charge of the project, who took a week-long vacation two weeks before the launch.
It was the “right time, wrong person,” the former employee said, noting that Binance launched around the same time and became a wildly successful crypto-to-crypto exchange.
Read more: The Unbelievable Brilliance of Binance (2019)
While Lozada understood technical matters better than Kayamori, he was not particularly strong at execution, another former employee said. Lozada often yelled at junior staff and ridiculed people for making mistakes, he said.
Kayamori did the same, former employees said. “He was good and humble when he talked to me,” said one source, but he also shouted at employees in team calls, rhetorically asking why everyone was stupid and didn’t do their job well.
People broke into open infighting in public Slack channels. “They would just go nuts on Slack,” a source close to Liquid recalled. Abusive language was pervasive. Team leads referred to employees as “f**king idiots,” “childish,” and to their work as “garbage.”
Liquid was highly unmeritocratic, two former employees said. There were standards but it didn’t seem to matter if you met them. Managers awarded discretionary bonuses to those close to them.
Kayamori showed “bizarre favoritism,” another former employee said, citing as an example the appointment of fellow SoftBank alumnus Katsuya Konno to Chief Financial Officer.
This person recounted an incident in spring 2018 when Konno was working on the launch of the Japan-focused Liquid mobile app. According to this former employee, Konno spent freely on banner ads, yet there was scant monitoring of ad performance or ad targeting.
At one point, Liquid was notified that its Google advertising accounts were at risk of being shut down for failure to pay about $300,000 in bills. A wire transfer from a bank would take too long to save the account. So a marketing department employee spent most of her day at a convenience store, making one small payment after another until the total amount owed was sent to Google.
Given that the convenience store transfer limit is usually around 250,000 yen (about $2,000), the marketing employee likely spent five hours making 150 transfers, this person estimated.
That same year, Liquid sold a large proportion of ether raised in the ICO at what turned out to be the bottom of the market, two former employees said.
“They held onto it, hedged none of it,” one said, “then panic sold.”
Konno did not respond to a request for comment.
The feud between the co-founders not only divided the company, but it meant that staff worked on a huge range of initiatives and products.
“When Mike and Mario were feuding over the company, there were various, crazy ‘hail Mary’ projects that they attempted,” a former employee said.
Among Lozada’s pet projects was a 100x leveraged contract-for-difference (CFD) derivative product called Liquid Infinity, introduced in April 2019 for non-Japanese customers. Such highly leveraged contracts are generally a risky investment, and Liquid’s own limitations made it moreso.
“The exchange’s thin liquidity meant that any medium-large buy or sell could spike or crash the market,” one former employee explained. As a result of those dramatic swings, traders’ highly leveraged positions were more likely to be liquidated, two former employees said.
Also in April 2019, Liquid announced a U.S. venture called Liquid USA. A person with knowledge of the venture said that Liquid management insisted Liquid USA allow “basic” accounts, which did not require know-your-customer (KYC) screening, even though such accounts generated little revenue and were likely to be frowned upon by U.S. regulators.
Read more: What Is KYC and Why Does It Matter For Crypto?
The venture relied on Liquid’s technology, which this person described as a “huge albatross.” The flagship Japanese exchange sometimes crashed, the person said, and management seemed to prioritize fancy layers of tech over getting the fundamentals right. In late 2020, the U.S. venture was called off.
Throughout its history, Liquid hemorrhaged talented people responsible for core products, five former employees said.
“The good people left and you have people in roles that probably feel a bit too large for them,” said Norbert Gehrke, founder of Tokyo FinTech, a non-profit organization of Japan fintech enthusiasts. Gehrke invited Kayamori to speak to Tokyo FinTech members in 2017 and is familiar with other Liquid staff.
Liquid kept up appearances. QASH held its value in November and early December 2018 even as bitcoin and ether, the crypto market’s bellwethers, tumbled.
It did so thanks, at least in part, to the company buying its own token to sustain the price at 21 cents, Slack messages reviewed by CoinDesk show. It does not appear that Liquid disclosed these purchases publicly.
In other messages, employees discussed the company’s practice of double-counting trades. While the industry norm is to count a trade only once, Liquid’s system recorded each trade twice, once for the buy order and again for the sell order. So, for instance, a trade of 1 BTC was recorded as 2 BTC. This reporting practice inflated the exchange’s trade volume, making it look more successful than it was.
Liquid continued to brand itself “the world’s most secure exchange” through 2019, although four former employees said that by this time security had deteriorated.
Two of those employees described an incident in which a customer service employee took advantage of a loophole on the back end to create bogus accounts, using administrator privileges to withdraw small amounts of BTC and XRP from company wallets. The employee made off with around $30,000 worth of crypto.
Liquid’s now-porous security frustrated some of its employees. One of them ran a “pentest,” or penetration test, which attained exchange funds on a thumb drive, and delivered the drive to senior management to demonstrate how easy it was to breach security, two former employees said. Pentests are a form of white-hat, or benevolent, hacking, akin to testing your front door after locking it.
During this period, Kayamori’s priority was dressing up Liquid for sale. In April 2019, announcing a Series C funding round of undisclosed size, he declared Liquid a unicorn, one of only two billion-dollar companies on Japan's startup scene.
“The raise was structured solely to get that billion number out there,” a source close to Liquid said. The round was done in two parts; Liquid raised a larger amount of money at a lower valuation, and then a small amount of money at the unicorn valuation, the source said, calling this decision “a sign of the hubris of Mike Kayamori.”
Kayamori and Konno spent roughly $5 million worth of Liquid’s ICO funds buying allocations of GRAM tokens, which were meant to be the native tokens for messaging app provider Telegram’s ambitious blockchain project, the TON network.
“Please work on this as if our survival depends on the success of the Gram IEO because it really does,” Kayamori told employees on Slack. (IEO stands for initial exchange offering, a token sale managed by an exchange, which was a fashionable way to distribute new crypto assets at the time.)
Read more: Initial Exchange Offerings Are Providing Big Returns, But Why? (2019)
Traders in private markets were buying and selling IOUs for GRAM even though Telegram’s token agreement prohibited buyers from selling their allocations until the network went live.
Liquid purchased the allocations not from Telegram itself but from an entity known as Gram Asia, two former employees said. Gram Asia, in turn, had bought allocations from another party, and so on.
Read more: Early Investors in Telegram Crypto See 400% Returns – But Buyers Risk It All (2019)
Compliance staff raised questions about delivery risk, operational risk and reputation risk, according to an internal document. On balance, senior management wanted to generate quick revenue.
In October 2019, the SEC sued Telegram, citing violation of U.S. securities law, and the tokens never got minted. Liquid didn’t sell anywhere close to the amount of GRAM tokens it bought, nor did it recoup the funds sent to Gram Asia, three former employees said.
Liquid canceled the GRAM sale in January 2020 and refunded the money to investors. The exchange lost money on the IEO, at least $5 million, three former employees said.
In 2020, Liquid cut costs by moving its Tokyo headquarters into a fourth-floor office, which is usually the cheapest, due to the number four’s inauspicious similarity to the Japanese word for death.
The new office, where the company remains, was less than a quarter of the size of the previous office. Unlike the previous headquarters, the new digs had no beds, no cafe and no private rooms; employees worked in an open-plan office.
The signing room was now a thing of the past. By this time, Liquid had started using the services of a cryptographic key management company called Unbound, which relies on a method called multi-party computation (MPC), or “warm wallet” technology.
Crypto exchanges balance business interests against security risks. Users want fast withdrawals, and also expect their funds to be secure. Cold, or offline, wallets are safe from hackers but slow down withdrawals. Hot wallets, connected to the internet, are riskier yet make withdrawals easy. In 2019, MPC technology was a popular middle option, a former Liquid employee recalled.
Read more: MPC Explained: The Bold New Vision for Securing Crypto Money (2019)
Spending by the C-suite continued despite the office downgrade.
“They were just blowing through all the money in the ICO on stupid things,” a former employee said, citing executives taking first-class flights between Vietnam and Japan.
There was pressure to make Liquid quickly profitable, which may have driven Kayamori to leap from shiny thing to shiny thing, four former employees said.
Liquid took five- and six-figure token listing fees as high as $250,000 from projects, an internal document reviewed by CoinDesk shows. Their tokens were usually listed on the global part of the exchange, unavailable to Japanese customers. (The document shows one pending deal with a U.S.-based project that would pay an extra $100,000 for a “Japan listing” on top of its $150,000 fee.)
Liquid came close to listing the SHOPIN token before the SEC charged the project’s CEO, Eran Eyal, with fraud. The company also onboarded the ARE token, only to delist it less than a year later.
Yet, at the same time, Liquid declined to list projects that management acknowledged were of high quality if they refused to pay listing fees, according to Slack messages reviewed by CoinDesk. (The absence of listing fees would not necessarily make listing a token unprofitable for the exchange, if it could make money over time on trading fees.)
When asked by CoinDesk whether he refused to list high-quality tokens favoring more dubious tokens instead, Seth Melamed, who headed business development at Liquid up to November 2019, before becoming chief operating officer, described listing digital assets as a “multi-faceted process.” Considerations included due diligence, timing and costs of technology implementation, among other factors, he said.
Liquid also allowed U.S. citizens to take part in dozens of ICOs and IEOs, even though these were not registered as securities and thus risked putting the company in the SEC’s crosshairs, said a former employee.
“There's still the question of whether the offer and sale of the tokens in question qualify as securities transactions, but it's definitely going to put the exchange on the SEC's radar if it wasn't there already,” said Grant Gulovsen, an attorney in private practice who represents clients involved in crypto.
All the while, building the company’s own QASH blockchain continued at a snail’s pace.
“It didn’t get enough attention or manpower,” a former employee said, recalling that six to seven developers spent a week each month building the QASH blockchain.
To become a successful layer 1, or base, blockchain, this person said, QASH needed at least double the number of developers as well as to put together a marketing campaign and a plan to persuade people to use the chain.
According to internal Slack messages from the second half of 2019, management realized Liquid was not going to deliver on ICO investor expectations, such as the proprietary blockchain for QASH and the World Book.
Also during this period, Liquid took steps to capitalize on another company’s mistake.
In November 2019, Bitmex, a high-flying crypto derivatives exchange known for its leveraged futures contracts, disclosed that it had accidentally revealed tens of thousands of customer email addresses in the “cc” field of a mass mailing.
Read more: BitMEX Says Quality Check 'Failure' Led to Email Privacy Breach
Liquid got a hold of these addresses and cross-referenced them with those of its own users, according to a former employee and Slack messages reviewed by CoinDesk.
A Liquid marketing manager wrote a plan to court existing customers who had accounts at Bitmex, the former employee said, because these traders were likely to be users of leverage. Liquid aimed to become their preferred place for leveraged trading.
Targeting Bitmex customers who didn’t already have Liquid accounts would have been too risky, the former employee explained.
It is unclear whether Liquid ever followed through on the plan.
In early 2020 employees began working remotely due to the coronavirus pandemic. Kayamori was known not to turn on his camera for online meetings; employees only heard his voice. He appeared to some to leave day-to-day management to Chief Operating Officer Melamed.
From April to June 2020, some employees had to use their personal laptops for work.
“It was a red flag because this is a financial company” that should have provided staff with secure devices, a former employee said. Liquid eventually solved the problem by reallocating laptops from departing employees to those who remained, this person said.
“Instead of taking calculated risks, executives cut the company to pieces at the expense of individual employees,” another former employee said. The company didn’t spend money to capitalize on bull runs or the so-called DeFi summer of 2020, when decentralized finance protocols rewarded users with generous yields for lending their tokens, this person said.
Kayamori persuaded the board to vote Lozada out in the middle of 2020.
When asked about his departure by CoinDesk, Lozada said that it was “amicable.” He did not respond to questions about his performance as co-founder, nor the products and practices he introduced.
A higher-than-usual proportion of customer service employees had access to the user accounts at a level that meant they could change user details, view wallet addresses and view funds, a former employee said.
On Nov. 13, 2020, Liquid was hacked. The exchange blamed security lapses at domain registrar and web hosting company GoDaddy (GDDY).
The vendor “incorrectly transferred control of the account and domain to a malicious actor,” Kayamori wrote at the time. GoDaddy did not respond to CoinDesk’s request for comment.
Kayamori claimed that client funds were accounted for, and remained safe and secure. But two former employees said the full extent of the November 2020 hack was never disclosed. Customer assets and a trove of personal data were stolen, they said.
“Insofar as Mike ever considered security at all, he thought of it as a product that he could buy,” a former employee said sardonically. “Yep, we bought ourselves a security. Got one, don't need to waste any more cash on another ‘security.’”
Rival Japanese exchanges Coincheck and bitFlyer were beating Liquid domestically. JFSA lifted the business improvement order in 2021, enabling Liquid to do new business in Japan, but the company needed capital.
Two stories about Liquid’s financial health circulated. Earnings posted in public channels and announced in weekly calls made Liquid look like it was doing well, two former ground-level employees said. The company earned most of its money from listing new tokens, making $200,000 to $600,000 in good months, they said.
But two former senior staffers with knowledge of the company’s finances said that Liquid was only profitable for a few months in its lifetime, even with the bull runs of 2020 and 2021.
A source close to Liquid said that management stopped reporting metrics just months after new product launches if the numbers didn’t look good.
“This isn’t only for board decks, this is their own internal data,” the source said. “Mike could not stand failing.”
On Aug. 19 2021, Liquid suspended withdrawals and deposits. It claimed that it had been hacked again. The size of the hack was later reported to be $90 million.
The hack brought down Liquid’s valuation, three former employees said. It was no longer a unicorn. A week after the hack, FTX extended a $120 million loan to the Japanese exchange.
Liquid said the money would go toward “accelerating new capital generation projects and providing critical liquidity.” (FTX has built its reputation on its derivatives offering and leverage products.)
Within two months, the JFSA awarded Liquid a Type 1 license, which allowed it to offer derivatives in the Japan market. Without a Type 1 license, exchanges can only offer spot trading. Without the loan from FTX, Liquid likely would not have obtained the Type 1 license, a former employee said.
There is still no official explanation for what happened in the hack. Liquid called in security teams, including crisis management firm Blackpanda, to investigate.
“Blackpanda has noted that to respect the confidentiality of all clients (past and prospective) in the crypto industry, it has declined to comment on the matter at hand,” CEO Gene Yu said.
Forensic investigations into the August 2021 hack have stopped, two former employees said.
“Pausing a security review before a full report is made is effectively the same as not getting one,” said Josh Smith, founder of Blockwell, which has been a vendor and external token auditor for Liquid for five years.
Liquid held non-Japanese users’ assets in “warm” MPC wallets managed by Unbound because Singapore, which regulated that part of the business, does not require exchanges to hold assets in cold wallets.
A former employee said that before the hack, and without her knowledge, her access had been changed so that she could move funds out of wallets, a task well outside her job description. When she learned this had happened, the employee said, she worried she would be made a scapegoat for the hack.
A different employee would later claim in court papers that’s exactly what happened to her.
On March 28, 2022, Liquid’s former head of product and marketing in Japan, Marisa McKnight, filed a wrongful termination suit against Quoine, the official legal entity, claiming that she was “scapegoated” for the hack.
Read more: Ex-Employee Claims Liquid Global Exchange 'Scapegoated' Her for $90M Hack
According to documents McKnight filed in Singapore’s High Court, she initially enjoyed a positive and close working relationship with Liquid’s senior management but later became “increasingly excluded and isolated.”
The documents claim that after McKnight resigned in September 2021 (the month after the hack), senior management at Liquid told her she was a suspect in the breach and requested she fly to Japan.
McKnight claims she refused to travel there because of the serious nature of management’s allegations, the two-week quarantine for travelers during COVID-19 and the fact the company did not book her a hotel or return flight. She also said in her claim that Kayamori threatened her. Even though she had "
,,,,,,
82,1157,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/17/apecoin-migration-draws-interest-from-avalanche-flow/,"ApeCoin Migration Draws Interest From Avalanche, Flow",The Bored Ape Yacht Club-linked ApeCoin DAO is in talks with layer 1 suitors as the project considers a post-Ethereum future.,2022-05-17,"After Yuga Labs’ disastrous non-fungible token (NFT) minting for its “Otherside” metaverse land sale cost investors more than $100 million in transaction fees, board members of the Bored Ape Yacht Club-linked ApeCoin DAO are listening to offers about migrating ApeCoin (APE) off Ethereum, CoinDesk has learned.
Two suitors are Avalanche and Flow, according to executives at the firms behind both networks. Both blockchains consider themselves to be better suited for hosting a large-scale NFT ecosystem like the one Yuga is building.
Yuga Labs first alluded to a potential ApeCoin migration at the end of an April 30 Twitter thread, “encouraging” the decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) comprised of APE holders to consider it a possibility.
We're sorry for turning off the lights on Ethereum for a while. It seems abundantly clear that ApeCoin will need to migrate to its own chain in order to properly scale. We'd like to encourage the DAO to start thinking in this direction.
A source familiar with ApeCoin Foundation told CoinDesk the board had not previously considered migrating to a different layer 1, but that the tweet prompted discussion among the DAO’s members about a potential move, which remains ongoing.
While the DAO board is not “actively shopping” for new chains, according to the source, it recognizes its responsibility to implement the wishes of the DAO, including a chain migration if it were to be voted through in a proposal.
Members of the ApeCoin board include Reddit co-founder Alex Ohanian, Animoca Brands chairman Yat Siu and FTX’s head of gaming, Amy Wu.
The DAO has so far voted on 11 different proposals since its creation in March. Yuga Labs did not respond directly to CoinDesk’s request for comment on its influence over the decision-making process.
In the case of an Avalanche move, Yuga’s ecosystem would be able to exist on its own subnet, which is a technology that allows the transactions of a single application to be isolated without clogging the broader network.
Avalanche committed $290 million to attracting subnets in March, though talks with the project remain preliminary.
“We’ve had some early discussions with [ApeCoin DAO] about subnets, and we’ve certainly got our pitch ready to go,” Kevin Sekniqi, co-founder and chief operating officer at Ava Labs, told CoinDesk in an interview. “We all saw it with the land sale, NFT ecosystems of that size need to exist in a scalable environment.”
Flow’s blockchain offers a similar value proposition, having proven its capability of handling high-transaction volumes with NBA Top Shot, which sees tens of thousands of transactions each day.
Dapper Labs, the company behind Flow, also created the blockchain out of similar necessity following its famous CryptoKitties NFT debacle that temporarily choked Ethereum in a similar proportion to the Otherside sale.
“We’ve had some conversations with folks that are board members [of ApeCoin DAO], and I think it's going to come down to a vote,” Mik Naayem, chief business officer of Dapper Labs, told CoinDesk in an interview. “CryptoKitties faced similar challenges, and I think that Flow would be a great home for [ApeCoin], that being said there's still a lot of assets on Ethereum and things to consider.”
The benefits of Yuga moving its ecosystem to its own chain are apparent – lower transaction costs, faster network speeds, the ability to pay gas fees in APE, etc. But potential problems that could stem from the move are just as obvious, like what the firm would do with all its existing Ethereum assets, which total over $1 billion in market cap.
Even with its own chain, plenty of complications could persist. The popular play-to-earn game Axie Infinity is seen by many as a cautionary tale of migration, most recently suffering from a $625 million exploit of its gaming-focused Ronin network. On the other hand, Crabada – based on its own Avalanche subnet – has emerged as a nascent Web 3 gaming hit.
As Dapper Labs’ Naayem said, the decision about migrating chains will ultimately be decided by members of ApeCoin DAO, an entity Yuga has affirmed it is not in control over, though undoubtedly influences.
UPDATE (May 17, 15:56 UTC): Sekniqi later clarified Ava Labs was in talks with ApeCoin DAO, not Yuga Labs, about a prospective subnet."
83,527,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/18/ftx-liberty-city-lead-20m-raise-for-dev-platform-dorahacks/,"FTX, Liberty City Lead $20M Raise for Dev Platform DoraHacks","The hackathon startup will use the funds to launch an NFT-focused venture fund, among other things.",2022-05-18,"Hackathon organizer DoraHacks has raised $20 million in a funding round led by FTX Ventures, the investment arm of crypto exchange FTX, and Liberty City Ventures.
Other participants in the round included Circle Ventures, Gemini Frontier Fund, Sky9 Capital, Crypto.com Capital and Amber Group.
DoraHacks has curated hackathons for over 200 Web 3 startups and developer teams, including the Solana, Polygon and Avalanche ecosystems. The funding round’s backers said in a press release that having access to the front lines of blockchain development was an attractive opportunity.
The capital will be used to drive the launches of the Dora Grant DAO, a decentralized grant community, and Dora Infinite Fund, a venture fund focused on non-fungible tokens (NFTs).
DoraHacks previously raised $8 million last November in a strategic funding round led by Binance Labs.
Read more: Binance Labs Invests $8M in Hackathon Organizer DoraHacks"
84,774,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/18/biden-administration-wants-crypto-exchanges-to-separate-customer-and-corporate-funds/,Biden Administration Wants Crypto Exchanges to Separate Customer and Corporate Funds,"Federal officials saw Coinbase’s admission about customers’ vulnerability in a bankruptcy and will call for congressional action to segregate clients’ funds, source says.",2022-05-18,"U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration will press Congress to demand cryptocurrency exchanges keep their customers’ money separate from their own corporate funds, according to a person familiar with the plan that could constrain the way the industry does business.
Spurred by Coinbase’s (COIN) recent disclosure that customers’ money would be jammed up if the company declared bankruptcy, federal officials intend to push U.S. lawmakers to fix the problem by insisting that a future legal framework require crypto firms keep customer assets walled off. That type of custodial rule is standard for financial firms such as futures platforms, but crypto exchanges routinely mingle their funds with customers’ holdings in the same pot – a situation the administration wants to see ended by legislation. The securities industry commonly commingles funds, but the investments are also more heavily regulated.
Federal officials will push in the coming weeks to put the change into any crypto bill considered by Congress, the person said, building on a contention last year in the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets report on stablecoins: Companies that host crypto wallets need close federal oversight. The administration thinks the trading platforms should still permit pooling of customers’ assets, allowing the companies to keep managing trades internally rather than having to put each move on a blockchain.
Coinbase, a publicly traded company that is one of the industry’s largest exchanges, admitted in a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission last week that “in the event of a bankruptcy, the crypto assets we hold in custody on behalf of our customers could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings and such customers could be treated as our general unsecured creditors.” That’s the bottom rung of people paid back when a company fails, suggesting a misstep by Coinbase could indefinitely lock up clients’ tokens – or funnel them away to pay other creditors.
""Don't think you actually own your tokens when you go into a digital wallet,"" Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Gary Gensler said at a conference this week, underlining some of the federal government’s concerns about custody of investors’ assets. ""If the platform goes down, guess what, you just have a counterparty relationship with the platform. Get in line in bankruptcy courts.""
When a firm takes a customer’s tokens, they can use them as they will, Gensler pointed out. In fact, the exchanges are “often trading against you,” he said. And since customers lost billions in the wreckage of Luna’s algorithmic stablecoin, terraUSD (UST), his investor-protection advocacy could gain momentum.
“Congressional Democrats will follow his lead and escalate their calls for greater oversight,” predicted Jaret Seiberg, a Washington-based analyst at Cowen Group, Inc., in a research note this week. “The troubles with TerraUSD and the drop in crypto valuations will make it politically more challenging for Republicans to effectively oppose Gensler's policy agenda.”
For its part, Coinbase – staggered by a loss of more than 80% in its share price since last year – assured its nervous customers and investors that the distressing splash of its SEC filing wasn’t meant to signal anything about its prospects. Founder and CEO Brian Armstrong said that the disclosures were merely responding to a new SEC requirement, and his company isn’t in danger of filing for bankruptcy protection.
For now, crypto’s leading platforms – also including names such as Binance.US, FTX and Kraken – don’t need to strain themselves to meet the administration’s push for a custody rule. A closely divided and essentially immobile Congress isn’t likely to produce legislation this year, especially as lawmakers gear up for the bloody arena of the midterm elections in November. The most optimistic guesses see a crypto bill getting traction when the dust settles on the new Congress next year.
But not everybody sees fencing off customers’ money as the best answer.
“Instead of focusing on the lack of client asset segregation at digital asset exchanges, which is also true with securities held in ‘street name’ at DTCC, legislators should work on a Digital Asset Investor Protection Act that mirrors the Securities Investor Protection Act,” said Dave Weisberger, co-founder and CEO of CoinRoutes, Inc. It could give investors “primary status in bankruptcy proceedings,” and it could also set up a backstop fund to cover losses like the one securities investors have.
For others, a law banning firms from blending customers’ assets with their own would still represent a bare minimum for those calling for rigorous investor safeguards.
""There is a lot more that has to be done,"" said Patrick McCarty, a financial consultant and former regulator who teaches crypto classes at Georgetown Law. He said segregated accounts would be ""a significant step forward"" but argued strict regulations and a deeper overhaul of the business model are needed to return to crypto's founding ideas about recording every transaction on an indelible public ledger.
""Why would one advocate for a band aid – albeit significant – when it looks like major surgery is needed to protect investors?"" McCarty said."
85,1160,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/first-mover-asia-kucoin-plans-to-bolster-defi-activity-on-its-blockchain-after-150m-raise-cryptos-gain/,First Mover Asia: KuCoin Plans to Bolster DeFi Activity on Its Blockchain After $150M Raise; Cryptos Gain,The crypto exchange will add technical features to support developers and build on KuCoin's public blockchain; bitcoin outperforms ether.,2022-05-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin recovers somewhat; most other cryptos are in the green.
Insights: KuCoin will use part of its $150 million capital raise to increase DeFi activity on its blockchain.
Technician's take: BTC appears oversold, although trading conditions have been choppy over the past few days.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,185 +4.4%
Ether (ETH): 2,011 +3.6%
Bitcoin posts a small recovery
As improvement goes, bitcoin didn't have much to crow about on Thursday. The largest cryptocurrency was still struggling to remain above $30,000, and well off where it was trading as little as two weeks ago.
But the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization did a little better than ether and other major altcoins.
Bitcoin was recently changing hands at around $30,200, up more than 4.4% over the past 24 hours. The increase outperformed ether, which rose a little more than 3.5% during the same period, and other cryptos, most of which also registered smaller gains as investors continued to prefer the best-known digital asset over smaller, riskier ones. XRP, SOL, ADA and MATIC rose less than a percentage point. AVAX was among the losers, recently dropping more than 3%.
Still, the flavor of the market remained sour with investors continuing to chew on the triple whammy of inflationary pressures, central bank missteps and the looming prospect of recession. Altcoins have largely trailed bitcoin amid the mushrooming economic uncertainty in recent months. For the past 90 days, only 15% of the top 50 altcoins have outperformed bitcoin, according to the Blockchain Center, a provider of crypto data. The trend reflects the current risk-off environment.
Gold, a traditionally safe haven for risk-averse investors, rose by more than a percentage point.
Equity markets? They fared a little worse than cryptos but improved on their previous day's bloodbath. The S&P 500 fell by less than a percentage point after finishing Wednesday with its largest percentage decline since June 2020. The index's 18% tumble from its most recent high remains perilously close to the 20% drop that merits bear market designation. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, which reached bear market status earlier this year, fell slightly on Thursday.
Stocks' big plunge on Wednesday reflected disappointing first quarter sales by retail giants Target (TGT) and Walmart (WMT). On Thursday, Kohl's (KSS), the largest department store chain by number of locations, added to the retail sector's woes with its own downbeat report and provided the latest evidence of inflation's growing impact on consumer spending. Meanwhile, U.S. home sales fell last month, a sign that higher mortgage rates triggered by the U.S. Federal Reserve's more hawkish monetary policy, along with record high prices, was slowing the once hot-housing market.
""Results from Walmart and Target this week have brought into sharp focus the plight facing companies and consumers as inflation begins to bite,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst, U.K. & EMEA, Craig Erlam wrote in an email. ""Inflation is catching up and profit margins are taking a hit. Soon enough, though, those higher costs will be passed on and consumers will start being more careful with their spending. There's a feeling of inevitability about the economy, the question is whether we're going to see a slowdown or a recession.""
Yet, Erlam struck a positive note about bitcoin remaining at the $30,000 level. Bitcoin is holding up surprisingly well against the backdrop of pessimism in the markets,"" Erlam wrote. ""Perhaps because it's fueled by economic concern rather than simply interest rates.""
He added: ""Whether it can continue to swim against the sentiment tide, time will tell.""
S&P 500: 3,900 -0.5%
DJIA: 31,253 -0.7%
Nasdaq: 11,388 -0.2%
Gold: 1,842 +1.4%
KuCoin to increase DeFi activity
Seychelles-based crypto exchange KuCoin will devote part of its recent $150 million raise to expand technical features and support developers building on the KuCoin Community Chain (KCC), a public blockchain, the firm told CoinDesk.
“We know the difficulties and obstacles that developer teams have in their initial stage of development,” a spokesperson for KuCoin said. “Therefore, we will devote more resources to discovering and supporting high-quality developers and early innovative projects.”
KuCoin did not provide the exact figures it would use to encourage developer growth. However, KCC will move to a cross-chain model that supports applications from multiple blockchains and build a layer 2 system that allows for faster transactions at a lower fee. Layer 2 refers to a secondary protocol built on top of an existing network
Funding development efforts could help bolster falling demand for KCC. Data from explorers show Thursday saw just 19,000 transactions on the network compared to over 60,000 in early May.
The move is similar to developer funds raised by the likes of crypto projects Fantom, Near and Avalanche in the past year to encourage activity on their blockchain and the building of newer decentralized applications (dapps). Fantom committed $315 million, Near raised $350 million, while Avalanche launched a $220 million ""crypto growth"" fund.
KuCoin is the fifth-largest crypto exchange by trading volume, CoinGecko data shows. The firm saw a 1,503% year-over-year growth in new users from Asia, who made up a large part of its daily trading volume.
The exchange raised $150 million earlier this month at a valuation of $10 billion in a round led by Jump Crypto.
Bitcoin Returns Above $30K, Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) held short-term support above $27,500 as buyers reacted to oversold conditions on the charts. The cryptocurrency could face resistance at $35,000, which is where the current downtrend accelerated earlier this month.
BTC briefly traded above $30,000 during the New York trading day and was up by as much as 3% over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, which could keep short-term buyers active. Further, short-term momentum is improving, similar to what occurred in early March, which preceded a brief relief rally in price.
A countertrend reversal signal, per the DeMARK indicators, appeared on BTC's daily chart on May 12 alongside major equity indices. That suggests a relief rally in speculative assets could delay additional breakdowns in price.
Still, BTC will need to register a weekly close above $30,000 (and above 4,000 for the S&P 500) to confirm short-term bullish signals. For now, upside appears to be limited because of negative momentum signals on the weekly and monthly charts.
Veecon conference around Web 3 and culture
G7 finance ministers meeting
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): People's Bank of China interest rate decision.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
MakerDAO Founder on DAI vs UST, 21Shares Enters US Market
MakerDAO founder Rune Christensen joined ""First Mover"" to share his take on the fallout of terraUSD (UST) and how DAI is different from other stablecoins. 21Shares co-founder Ophelia Snyder explained how her firm's two crypto index funds could provide benefits for U.S. customers in a volatile market. Plus, Dan Gunsberg of Hxro provided crypto markets insights.
Do Kwon Pushes On-Chain Proposal Live Even as 92% Vote 'No' in Online Poll: The plan to put Terra back on track after last week’s implosion includes a hard fork of the existing network.
Nomura’s Digital Division to Focus on Cryptocurrencies First, DeFi Later: Phase one of Nomura’s new digital-assets division will include the top 10 cryptocurrencies, with DeFi and NFTs further down the line.
A16z Leads $15M Round for P2E Studio Azra Games: The blockchain gaming company is preparing to launch a fantasy collectibles and mass combat roleplaying game.
Solana, Cardano Tokens Slide Over 9% as Cryptos See Weakness Amid Poor US Consumer Data: Bitcoin lost support at $30,000 as Chinese technology stocks sold off on Thursday amid earnings worries a day after hawkish comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve.
FTX US Debuts Stock Trading in Push for Bigger Slice of US Retail Pie: Brokerage accounts can be funded with the stablecoin USDC, the exchange said.
Let Terra Die: Do Kwon's proposal to fork the failed stablecoin network isn't what LUNA holders want, nor will it help them.
Today's crypto explainer: How Do You Tax an NFT?
Other voices: The Crypto Crash Feels Amazing (The Atlantic)
“Certainly the economic outlook globally is challenging and uncertain. Higher food and energy prices are having stagflationary effects, namely, depressing output and spending and raising inflation all around the world.” (Janet Yellen, prior to G-7 finance ministers meeting) ... ""Eight companies are to blame for nearly half the stock market’s decline this year – and the pain doesn’t end there."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""The Biden administration is developing plans to further choke Russia’s oil revenues with the long-term goal of destroying the country’s central role in the global energy economy, current and former U.S. officials say. ... The proposed measures include imposing a price cap on Russian oil, backed by so-called secondary sanctions, which would punish foreign buyers that do not comply with U.S. restrictions by blocking them from doing business with American companies and those of partner nations."" (The New York Times)"
86,704,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/24/how-web-3-changes-philanthropy/,How Web 3 Changes Philanthropy,Subtitle not found,2022-05-24,"Ten years ago, the rebels hadn’t won. There was no Web 3. No non-fungible tokens (NFTs), no decentralized finance (DeFi), no decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs). No Coinbase, no Ethereum, no a16z Crypto.
Now, in 2022, we have all of these things.
Elon Musk pitches dogecoin on Twitter. The Miami Heat shoot hoops in the FTX Arena. Matt Damon shills crypto to millions during the Super Bowl.
Rhys Lindmark is CEO and co-founder at Roote, a nonprofit startup studio tackling problems with systems-level design. He will present a version of this essay on the ""Big Ideas"" stage at CoinDesk's Consensus festival, which runs June 9-12 in Austin, Texas. Learn more.
Now our feeds are full of NFT profile pictures, there are tokens worth $100 billion staked across dozens of DeFi ecosystems, and DAOs (almost) buy constitutions and Parisian art. Meanwhile, FTX chief Sam Bankman-Fried casually becomes President Joe Biden’s second-largest donor.
Web 3 is the biggest wealth creation event in history. The crypto rebels have won.
But we’re only 10 years in. What will happen in 2040? What does this mean for society? What does this mean for philanthropy?
To understand what will happen in 2040, we will look at three angles:
Past: Web 3 in the history of wealth creation events.
Present: How crypto whales are leveraging their wealth today.
Future: Decentralized solarpunk society.
A decade ago, crypto billionaires didn’t exist. Now there are dozens of them, with Twitter-optimized acronyms, such as ""SBF"" for Sam Bankman-Fried and ""CZ"" for Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao.
We’ve seen this before. The old rich give way to the new rich. Emperors like Ghengis Khan and Caesar used to control all wealth.
Then the Industrial Revolution birthed billionaire oil magnates like John D. Rockefeller and steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie.
Read more: Anonymous Crypto Donors Are Changing Philanthropy
Computers and Web 1 birthed billionaires like Bill Gates and Michael Dell. Web 2 created the elite of today: Jeff Bezos, Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg, Sergey Brin and Larry Page. And now, Web 3 has created SBF and CZ.
But are these crypto billionaires like SBF and CZ just a flash in the pan? Or are they forerunners of an impending wave of wealth creation?
In April 2021, Paul Graham wrote an essay, ""How People Get Rich Now."" By looking at the Forbes top 100 richest people, Graham shows how wealth creation has shifted over the past century from Industrial Tech to Inheritance and now to Digital Tech.
First, Graham shows how wealth shifted from Industrial Tech (in 1892) to Inheritance (in 1982).
In 1892, the New York Herald Tribune compiled a list of all the millionaires in America. How many had inherited their wealth then? Only about 20%. Instead, economist Hugh Rockoff found that ""many of the richest ... gained their initial edge from the new technology of mass production.""
Also in this series: Matt Prewitt: Let’s Use New Forms of Money to Commit to Our Communities
But by 1982, the most common source of wealth was inheritance. Of the 100 richest people, 60 inherited it from an ancestor. There were 10 du Pont heirs alone.
We can visualize this on the simple graph below to show how wealth became more inherited over the course of the 20th century.
This led to the rise of Investing and Digital Tech. Paul Graham again: By 2020, the number of heirs had been cut in half, accounting for only 27 of the biggest 100 fortunes.
Of the 73 new fortunes in 2020, 30 derive from Digital Technology, 26 from Industrial Technology and 17 from investing.
What about crypto, the intersection of Digital Technology and Investing?
Graham didn’t look at crypto in 2021, but by 2022 we now have two crypto billionaires in the top 100: SBF and CZ.
The graph has a new player in town, crypto (in orange at the top).
It may not seem like much, but rarely do we find an entirely new category for how the wealthiest people create their wealth.
More importantly, is this a trend? Will the graph soon be covered in orange?
Serial entrepreneur, investor and influential essayist Balaji Srinivasan and Polychain Capital founder and CEO Olaf Carlson-Wee estimate that:
If the price of Bitcoin were to reach $200,000, half of the world’s billionaires would be crypto billionaires.

This crypto wealth has vast potential to reshape philanthropy https://t.co/JPPYJ6sar1 via @bopinion
That’s a massive shift in who controls wealth. Does it hold up? We can do some napkin math to find out.
How many billionaires are there? There were only 15 billionaires in 1982, but there are now 2,668, and we'd expect that number to rise to around 3,300 by 2025.
But how many crypto billionaires are there?
Given crypto’s volatility and pseudonymous nature, this is a difficult question to pin down.
For simplicity, let’s use Forbes’ estimate of 19 crypto billionaires.
So our graph actually looks like this:
Again, this new crypto blip is pretty small. Right now only 1% of billionaires are crypto billionaires (19/2,668).
However, this is something categorically different. The real question is: What’s the trendline? Will orange crypto take over the chart?
More napkin math: As I write this, bitcoin (BTC) is at $30,000. What happens if, by 2025, BTC goes to $200,000, and the rest of crypto rises with it? This would give you roughly 400 BTC billionaires, 200 ether (ETH) billionaires, and 200 other billionaires.
With 800 new crypto billionaires, we’d get a graph like this:
This would make the 800 crypto billionaires around 20% of the total. With this rough napkin math, I disagree with Srinivasan and Carlson-Wee that $200,000 BTC makes 50% of billionaires crypto billionaires. I think it’s more like 20%. Still, 20% is a huge increase. And $200,000 BTC is not unlikely.
Coming back to Graham’s article, we could expect the graph to look something like this:
That’s a huge change! The orange number goes way up.
Finally, all of the math above doesn’t even include the long tail of wealth creation.
BTC mining created thousands of millionaires. The ETH initial coin offering (ICO) created thousands more. DeFi created thousands of degen millionaires too.
No matter how you do the math, Web 3 is a huge wealth creation event. How will the nouveau riche leverage it?
We all know the famous quote (misattributed to Gandhi):
First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.
There’s a version of this but for digital technology in Web 2 and Web 3:
First they ignore your protocols. From TCP/IP to ERC-20 and ERC-721.
Then they laugh at your Super Bowl ads. From Pets.com to Crypto.com.
Then they fight your influence. From the U.S. banning file sharing to China banning bitcoin mining.
Then you win … and get a crappy government implementation from Healthcare.gov to ""GovCoin Coming Soon.""
Another framework of technology adoption is Carlota Perez’s S-Curve. All tech goes from the Installation Period to the Deployment Period.
Web 3 is still in the Installation Period. How is it impacting society today?
We can break this up into three categories:
Value creation: The direct impacts of Web 3.
Excess capital: philanthropy and Web 3.
#SquadWealth: collaborative ecosystems in Web 3.
First, we can understand Web 2 impacts by looking at tech company mission statements:
Microsoft: A computer on every desk and in every home.
Google: To organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful.
Facebook: To make the world more open and connected.
Amazon: Where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online.
But in Web 3, mission statements are focused on money instead of information:
Coinbase: To increase economic freedom in the world.
OpenSea: Building an open digital economy.
FTX: A cryptocurrency exchange built by traders, for traders.
The direct impacts of Web 3 will be a digital economy, open to the entire world.
Web 2 birthed a set of “traditional” foundations like:
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Schmidt Futures.
Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative.
MacKenzie Scott Foundation.
Open Philanthropy.
Web 3 is going a bit weirder.
Brian Armstrong is funding $100M for longevity research.
SBF kickstarted the FTX Future Fund, which doubled the amount of money focused on longtermism. (See graph below.) He’s also given $10M+ to Carrick Flynn, an effective altruist political candidate from Oregon. (This is 3x the donations of any other House candidate.)
Finally, we can look at the long tail of wealth creation.
In Web 2, this primarily manifested as AngelList syndicates and angel investor networks. Groups of early employees who exit with tens of millions of dollars invest that money back into tech.
In Web 3, this goes even further. Every round is a community round, with NFT degens and crypto VCs aping in together. This will be supercharged with the Web 3-native version of syndicates, Syndicate DAO – here's a link to the first 100 investors. Crypto fundraising is community fundraising.
Read more: How Crypto Is Changing Philanthropy
But we also have a fully new form of community fundraising that is built on abundance, impact DAOs. These are collaborative networks that have positive externalities built-in.
Gitcoin Grants give back to the open-source community. KlimaDAO gives back to the environment. #DeSci gives back to fund new science research.
I like to think of these as DAOs that succeed in the presence of other DAOs, that also succeed in the presence of them. Here’s a map of the impact DAO space from Gitcoin and FiftyYearsVC.
People give back to fund crypto infrastructure through Gitcoin Grants. And then those grantors are rewarded later with retroactive public goods funding.
In Web 3, we’re seeing the huge impacts of crypto wealth through direct company impacts, philanthropic initiatives and new forms of #SquadWealth.
What will happen in 2040?
We can project these three trends into the future to understand a decentralized solarpunk society (#DeSoc).
Value Creation: the direct impacts of Web 3.
Excess Capital: philanthropy and Web 3.
#SquadWealth: collaborative Ecosystems in Web 3.
The ideas below are speculative, but should give us a rough sketch for where we’re headed.
Software is eating the world.
Web 2 started by eating bits then moved to atoms.
Web 3 will finish eating bits then move to atoms too.
Meatspace and the metaverse will be fully intertwined with internet and blockchain protocols.
Just as the Enlightenment separated church and state, crypto will separate money and the state.
Every community will have a currency.
Every person will have a Soul (a far-reaching identity token idea) and every Soul will work in trusted networks.
The Network State will form in the cloud, then will push down into every acre of land.
In addition to Coinbase Giving and FTX Future Fund, there will be dozens of massive Web 3 foundations that give in a bottom-up way.
These foundations will take the form of what Nadia Asparouhova calls idea machines, funded organisms that turn ideologies into outcomes.
In 1976, Vanguard gave retail investors access to the stock market index. Now we have new indices on crypto like the Coinbase 10, DeFi Pulse, DeFi Innovation and NFT Index. Through indices like these, the public will collaboratively own and benefit from Web 3 (and AI) wealth creation.
There will be a clear risk-adjusted investment ladder for public goods projects, like VC is an investment ladder for startups. We will have seed, Series A, Series B, etc. but for nonprofit public goods. Donors will be repaid through retroactive public goods funding.
Company mergers and acquisitions will phase out in favor of DAO token swaps and shared liquidity pools. The ecosystem of DAOs will rise and fall together as a complex adaptive system.
Software is eating the world. Crypto accelerates that process.
By 2040, Web 3 will be the water we swim in – full of crypto whales, millionaire minnows and the rest of us small krill.
Let’s make the water (and the land!) nourishing and balanced."
87,705,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/nansen-research-debunks-single-attacker-myth-in-terras-collapse/,Nansen Research Debunks Single 'Attacker' Myth in Terra's Collapse,The TerraUSD stablecoin collapsed for one reason: big holders didn't trust it.,2022-05-27,"Friday morning, on-chain analytics firm Nansen released its in-depth report on the trading activity that led to the depegging of the stablecoin terraUSD (UST). There is an immense amount of detail to be unpacked, but Nansen’s most important conclusion is this:
“We refute the popular narrative of one ‘attacker’ or ‘hacker’ working to destabilize UST. The depeg of UST could instead have resulted from the investment decisions of several well-funded entities, e.g., to abide by risk management constraints or alternative to reduce UST allocations deposited into [lending protocol] Anchor in the context of turbulent macroeconomic and market conditions.”
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
To put that in English, Nansen concludes that terraUSD lost its one-to-one peg to the U.S. dollar because a variety of large holders felt it was too risky to keep holding the tokens. So they sold them.
Nansen identified seven wallets that were putting big selling pressure on the token, and it believes they all belong to separate actors. Nansen says one of the seven, for instance, is part of the Celsius network.
Nansen found that from May 7-11, these “whales” independently began aggressively trading their UST for USDC or other assets through the Curve liquidity pool, where Nansen said the depeg originated. (Curve is a decentralized token exchange on Ethereum.)
The Luna Foundation Guard tried to defend the peg by buying all that UST, but whales dumped so much LFG couldn’t keep up. That is, the nonprofit founded to protect UST’s $1 valuation didn't deploy enough assets to soak up all that UST. At that point, the peg started to waver as worried UST holders decided it was worth it to take 97 or 98 cents on the dollar.
From there it was all over but the shouting, because UST’s Rube Goldberg-like perpetual motion machine made it profitable to arbitrage this price imbalance in a way that widened it further. That led to a “death spiral” for UST and caused LUNA – its related “balancer token” – to hyperinflate, ultimately leaving few buyers for either.
There’s a lot more to say about the back-end nuances, but the big picture is what matters here: At the end of the day, UST collapsed because several large holders independently decided it was too risky. This shouldn’t be surprising, because after the terraUSD collapse insiders like Sam Bankman-Fried of FTX have suggested the smart money knew the token “was transparently going to falter at some point,” and were poised to bolt when waters got choppy.
And why was the smart money so primed to run for the exits? Because they looked at the fundamental structure of LUNA and UST and saw something that could never work. Any other understanding of events is pure and simple deflection – what the kids these days call “cope.”
As I wrote last week, the idea that a single malicious “attacker” or some shadowy cabal had intentionally knocked UST off its kilter basically amounts to a defense of terrible network design, implying that things would have been fine if it weren’t for the powerful enemies of the Luna(tic) Revolution. But the Nansen report shows that for the delusion it is: UST collapsed because there wasn’t enough market faith in the algorithmic stablecoin’s design and team, and that’s that.
See also: UST's Do Kwon and the Human Cost of Lunatic Hubris | Opinion
This morning, I belatedly discovered one of the most absurd pieces of UST conspiracy cope yet, one that nicely sums up the motivated thinking behind the “attack” narrative. BitBoy, a particularly suspect YouTube crypto “influencer” who has been credibly accused of taking “pay to play” payments to promote tokens, confidently declared last week that the U.S. government is “100% behind the UST depeg.”
Whether he’s self-aware about it or not, BitBoy here is delivering the perfect line to cover his own ass as a Terra promoter (LUNA’s “pump cannot be stopped,” he declared in December), as well as covering for Do Kwon and his investors. Because, boy, if the U.S. government was behind the attack, then surely there wasn’t a problem with the UST design or the team. In fact – My God! – wouldn’t that suggest LUNA/UST were so perfect and powerful that the government was desperate to strangle it in its crib?
This is the kind of lazy, fact-free conspiracy thinking that’s rotting all of our brains and lets grifters get away with stealing your money. In this case it’s particularly devilish because we’re about to see the launch of “Luna 2.0,” which skeptics have said could just be another chance for Do Kwon and his allies to work over the same people they got the first time around.
See also: Do Kwon Is the Elizabeth Holmes of Crypto | Opinion
The truth is that LUNA and terraUSD collapsed, at best, because they were built on a fundamentally flawed economic mechanism that incentivized its own collapse the moment faith wavered even slightly. Accepting that reality might not be comforting, but getting to keep your money should be."
88,489,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/01/ftxs-harrison-says-stablecoin-demand-will-survive-terras-collapse/,FTX’s Harrison Says Stablecoin Demand Will Survive Terra's Collapse,Subtitle not found,2022-06-01,"Without a doubt, 2022 has put the crypto industry through a stress test. Bitcoin hit a low price not seen since 2020, the industry’s market cap dropped to $1.2 trillion from $3 trillion five months ago, and what was one of the most popular crypto assets, Terra's LUNA token, is now effectively worthless.
Many newbie investors might ask what all of that means. Is crypto really worth nothing, as European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde said, or is now a buying opportunity?
According to Brett Harrison, head of FTX.US, it's a mix.
“So much capital has moved into the private equity space in crypto,” he told CoinDesk last week on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum’s annual summit in Davos, Switzerland. “There are a lot of teams that are building and creating new infrastructure, building out new projects, that we're probably going to see a lot of that investment come back over time.”
In a wide-ranging interview with CoinDesk, Harrison talked about the Terra and LUNA crash, if crypto exchanges should act as a gatekeeper for assets that don’t look promising and what competition can be expected from traditional exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange that may offer more than just bitcoin and ethereum in the future.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
CoinDesk: Do you think crypto traders are going to rely less on stablecoins? What would be the alternative for the crypto industry?
Harrison: No, I don't think we're going to see less demand for the use of stablecoins and crypto. This word stablecoin is used in a lot of different contexts to mean different things. The Terra stablecoin is not a stablecoin at all. It's like an auto rebalancing structured product backed by a volatile asset, and it's basically a subsidized peg. There's too much of a run on that asset if the asset is too volatile, so that was never really going to last forever. It's very different from USDC. Most of the underpinnings of DeFi (decentralized finance) and even for centralized finance come from these fiat-backed stablecoins, which I don't think are a risk at all compared to something like Terra.
You were saying that UST basically was never going to be able to be what it was intended to be. What is your role as an exchange as sort of a gatekeeper for projects like Terra and coins like LUNA where they're sort of unproven and thus carry lots of risks?
On traditional equity exchanges, on futures exchanges, on commodity exchanges and on crypto exchanges, you have assets of various degrees of volatility. What's important is the disclosure of risks that come with it. UST was a completely open crypto. The code for what was actually going on there was completely open source, everyone knew exactly how it worked. It was a subsidized peg. There was no lack of transparency there, and everyone understood there was risk in the asset itself. I mean, to be able to offer a 20% yield on a token, that sort of very high yield doesn't come without risks. It brings up an interesting question as an exchange, whether it is our job to protect investors from having any sort of risk or volatility. We screen out assets all the time that we think aren't legitimate or don't actually have transparency or are a long-term value in that way. It's a fine line for us to decide whether we want to cross or not, but the most important thing is disclosure, and it's why we think it's so important for there to be regulation around stablecoins to make sure that if someone wants to call themselves a stablecoin, it actually is a stablecoin and not this sort of risky asset.
Do you think that there's going to be a regulatory framework on what can be listed and what cannot be listed?
There are bills that have been proposed by Congress members that actually talk about, for example, what kinds of assets a stablecoin could hold to call itself a stablecoin. On the listing side, there are many jurisdictions that already have standards for what you can list. For example, even in New York state, the DFS (Department of Financial Services) has a green list of what assets you're allowed to list. We would love to see more clarity from the market regulators in the United States on being able to understand exactly what assets can be listed by an exchange.
Let's talk about markets a little bit. Do you think there is going to be competition between traditional exchanges and crypto exchanges in the near future?
It’s an interesting question. We've seen a number of traditional exchanges talk about getting into crypto-related projects or exchange offerings. I think it's very possible that traditional exchanges might want to get into crypto in that way. I also think the other way could be true as well. We launched a stocks offering on our platform, and we're not an exchange – we're a broker that's introducing stock trading to exchanges. But you know, we may very well in the future become a competitor to traditional exchanges, as well. We certainly are in the derivatives space.
Are you afraid of that competition in the future?
We're not afraid of the competition; we welcome the competition, but there certainly is competition, and we already see a lot of pushback from the incumbents in the space on our application to the CFTC (Commodity Futures Trading Commission) to enable margin or clearinghouse. So there's definitely a lot of concern from our competitors that we're going to come in and disrupt the space, and that's exactly what we hope to do.
I want to talk a little bit about the correlation between the crypto market and the equities market. Do you see that correlation breaking anytime in the future and if so, what do you think could break it?
Right now, we're in a global environment where assets are going down. That's true across equities, bonds, broad-based futures of various kinds, crypto, and there's a lot of macroeconomic factors going into these down moves. There's also specific things to crypto, for example, in everything that happened with the Terra ecosystem. What we're finding now is, as crypto gains more mainstream adoption, that means that more institutions are allocating percentage of their portfolios of crypto, which means in a down move when they're looking for things to sell, crypto is going to be in the line of fire just like everything else. And so in a doubt, in a sort of violent downturn, all correlations go to one, everything is going down. And so right now, as prices are decreasing across the board, of course, there's going to be high correlation between these assets. As the market starts to turn around, I think we're going to see more growth, idiosyncratic moves between crypto and the traditional equity markets.
Do you see more institutional investors exiting or entering this phase right now during the current market sell off?
That's a good question. I think it's really going to be a mix. We're going to see some institutions that think this could be a perfect time to reenter the market at favorable prices. We're going to see some that feel that even though the sort of contagion of the Terra meltdown was sort of contained, they might see that as a reason to be more skeptical of crypto as a whole asset class and might cool off on investment, whether that's public or private investments. So we are going to see a mix for that over time, but in general, so much capital has moved into the private equity space in crypto. There's a lot of teams that are building and creating new infrastructure, building out new projects that we're probably going to see a lot of that investment come back over time."
89,1156,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/02/canonical-crypto-launches-20m-inaugural-fund-backed-by-marc-andreessen-chris-dixon/,"Canonical Crypto Launches $20M Inaugural Fund Backed by Marc Andreessen, Chris Dixon",The early-stage fund will invest in infrastructure projects for blockchain developers.,2022-06-02,"Canonical Crypto, a newly opened venture capital firm, has raised $20 million for its inaugural fund to back infrastructure projects for blockchain development, with a preference for talent making the transition from Web 2 to Web 3.
The fund was backed by a list of crypto heavy-hitters, including Andreessen Horowitz (a16z) partners Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon.
Other investors included Coinbase Ventures corporate development head Shan Aggarwal, Dragonfly Capital's Haseeb Quresh, FTX Ventures partner Amy Wu and several family offices.
“The thesis is really focused on the world I grew up in, which is developer infrastructure,” Canonical Crypto founder Anand Iyer told CoinDesk in an interview. “I feel like we’re at that phase in crypto right now where we just need better infrastructure. ... We need better airports to support all of the planes that are flying.”
Iyer founded Canonical Crypto late last year after shifting from traditional tech to the crypto space. He previously spent several years at Microsoft, including a stint as the tech giant’s ambassador to the Silicon Valley developer community. Iyer then co-founded sports-centric mobile developer HItpost (acquired by Yahoo in 2013) and Trusted Child Care, which was acquired by Care.com.
Noticing a growing interest in blockchain technology among his Silicon Valley friends, Iyer said he dove in, launching his own decentralized finance (DeFi) coursework and joining Pear VC to lead crypto and blockchain investments.
Canonical Crypto was born out of a desire to support early-stage founders building blockchain infrastructure, which Iyer defines as anything that can make developers more productive from code collaboration to testing to security to storage. Amazon Web Services is the development bundle used by many in Web 2, and Iyer sees the need to unbundle similar services for Web 3.
Iyer received advice from noted venture capitalists Andreessen and Dixon while he was crafting the fund and Dixon recommended “focusing on what you can do extremely well.”
Canonical Crypto expects to invest in 40 to 50 projects with the first fund, writing checks ranging from $250,000 to $500,000 for pre-seed to seed round investments. The firm will offer operational support with a focus on helping founders figure out how to tailor their tooling for the right set of users and a go-to-market strategy to get the solution to the best audience.
The fund has already made initial investments in several companies, including Solana-based non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace Formfunction, low-code decentralized application development platform Thirdweb, communication infrastructure provider Notifi and Solana-focused data infrastructure solution Vybe Network.
Canonical Crypto is launching its first fund during a cryptocurrency bear market that hasn’t dissuaded venture capital investments. A16z broke industry records last week, announcing $4.5 billion raised for its fourth crypto fund."
90,1162,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/02/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-bounces-back-from-hurricane-though-miners-are-selling/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Bounces Back From 'Hurricane' Though Miners Are Selling,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 2, 2022.",2022-06-02,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off for a holiday in the U.K.)
Price point: Bitcoin managed to tick back above $30K, as lower oil prices buoy traditional markets.
Market Moves: Bitcoin traders have been speculating for years that an economic ""hurricane"" might be in the making, much like the one that JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon is now warning traditional investors about.
Feature: Highlights from Helene Braun's Q&A with FTX US President Brett Harrison.
Bitcoin (BTC) bounced back above $30,000 in early trading, hours after a 6.2% dump on Wednesday.
Solana's SOL tokens were also finding support after tumbling 12% on Wednesday, when the network was halted by a bug linked to certain cold-storage transactions.
In traditional markets, crude oil fell after reports that U.S. President Joe Biden might visit Saudi Arabia this month. European stocks gained and U.S. stock futures were higher on speculation that lower energy prices might help to slow inflation.
ICYMI: CoinDesk's Eliza Gkritsi and Aoyon Ashraf reported that a squeeze on bitcoin-mining profit margins – think lower crypto prices and higher energy costs – might be forcing miners to sell some down some of their bitcoin inventories to pay for the extra operating costs. The miners also might want to set aside more (fiat currency) liquidity reserves for what could be an extended crypto bear market.
An economic 'hurricane' on the way?
Warnings of a coming economic ""hurricane"" on Wednesday by Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan Chase, the biggest U.S. bank, rattled traditional investors.
But the note of caution may have resonated with many crypto traders who have been speculating for years that economic and financial conditions looked unsustainable.
One bet is that the U.S. Federal Reserve might be sufficiently unnerved by downward-sloping stock prices to ease off its campaign to tighten monetary conditions, which it has said is necessary to tame inflation. But this thread of market logic was somewhat undermined this week when President Joe Biden held a meeting with Fed Chair Jerome Powell and essentially pledged to let the Fed do what it needs to do.
That means ongoing fears of further Federal Reserve monetary tightening could put a lid on any immediate rally for bitcoin. Arthur Hayes wrote in the latest post for his ""Crypto Trader Digest"" blog on the BitMEX website that a bull market in risky assets probably wouldn't begin anew until ""the Fed and its sycophantic cadre of other central bankers reverse course.""
""There are no easy outs when you combine the most levered domestic U.S. and global economy in history, interest rates that are already at their lowest in recorded human history, the disruption of the world’s largest energy and food exporters (Russia + Ukraine), and inflation that was already at its highest in 40 years even before the Russia/Ukraine war,"" Hayes wrote.
CoinDesk's Helene Braun spoke with FTX US President Brett Harrison at last week's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Here are some highlights:
I want to talk a little bit about the correlation between the crypto market and the equities market. Do you see that correlation breaking anytime in the future and if so, what do you think could break it?
Right now, we're in a global environment where assets are going down. That's true across equities, bonds, broad-based futures of various kinds, crypto, and there's a lot of macroeconomic factors going into these down moves. There's also specific things to crypto, for example, in everything that happened with the Terra ecosystem. What we're finding now is, as crypto gains more mainstream adoption, that means that more institutions are allocating percentage of their portfolios of crypto, which means in a down move when they're looking for things to sell, crypto is going to be in the line of fire just like everything else. And so in a doubt, in a sort of violent downturn, all correlations go to one, everything is going down. And so right now, as prices are decreasing across the board, of course, there's going to be high correlation between these assets. As the market starts to turn around, I think we're going to see more growth, idiosyncratic moves between crypto and the traditional equity markets.
Do you see more institutional investors exiting or entering this phase right now during the current market sell-off?
That's a good question. I think it's really going to be a mix. We're going to see some institutions that think this could be a perfect time to reenter the market at favorable prices. We're going to see some that feel that even though the sort of contagion of the Terra meltdown was sort of contained, they might see that as a reason to be more skeptical of crypto as a whole asset class and might cool off on investment, whether that's public or private investments. So we are going to see a mix for that over time. But in general, so much capital has moved into the private equity space in crypto. There's a lot of teams that are building and creating new infrastructure, building out new projects that we're probably going to see a lot of that investment come back over time.
For the full Q&A (and a video of the interview) please see: FTX’s Harrison Says Stablecoin Demand Will Survive Terra's Collapse
Indian Exchange CoinSwitch Kuber Unveils Crypto Rupee Index The Crypto Rupee Index (CRE8) will track the performance of the Indian rupee based on the eight biggest crypto assets.
DeFi 'Casino' May Need New Global Regulator, German Central Banker Says Joachim Wuermeling dismissed decentralized finance as a ""casino"" as the Financial Stability Board prepares a rulebook for the crypto sector.
Crypto Custody Firm Qredo Adds Blockchain Analytics to FATF ‘Travel Rule’ Offering Qredo is bringing its APIs to bear on the global push for crypto AML compliance.
Solana Halted by Bug Linked to Certain Cold Storage Transactions Validators restarted the network after four hours of downtime by disabling the so-called “durable nonce transactions” that have found favor among some exchanges.
What Is Tether? How USDT Works and What Backs Its Value Tether’s USDT is the most popular stablecoin and is widely used by traders. It is not without controversy. Here’s what you need to know.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher.
UPDATE (June 2 16:05 UTC) – Corrects that Brett Harrison is president of FTX US."
91,777,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/07/katie-hauns-new-fund-leads-32m-round-in-lending-protocol-euler/,Katie Haun's New Fund Leads $32M Round in Lending Protocol Euler,The funds will go toward treasury diversification for the forthcoming Euler DAO.,2022-06-07,"Decentralized finance (DeFi) lending platform Euler XYZ has raised $32 million in a funding round that was led by Haun Ventures, the new firm started by Andreessen Horowitz (a16z) alumna Katie Haun. The funding will go toward diversifying the treasury assets of the Euler DAO, which is expected to go live later this month.
Other backers in the round included Variant, FTX Ventures, Coinbase Ventures, Jump Crypto, Jane Street and Uniswap Labs Ventures.
“Euler takes a unique approach to addressing the risks associated with lending and borrowing crypto assets that stood out to us as exemplary in DeFi,” Haun said in a press release. “These kinds of innovative solutions are particularly important since lending and borrowing protocols serve as a key cornerstone of crypto markets.”
In traditional finance, third parties like banks facilitate borrowing by connecting those with excess money to those needing short-term access to money. In DeFi, the banks and other parties are replaced by blockchain-backed lending platforms.
Leading lending platforms like Aave and Compound let users borrow and lend from among a chosen group of liquid tokens, while Euler users can add any asset that has a wETH pair on decentralized exchange Uniswap to the Euler lending market.
“The primary purpose of Euler when we first started the project was to remove a lot of the barriers to entry that projects have in terms of getting listed under a DeFi protocol,” Euler XYZ CEO Michael Bentley told CoinDesk in an interview. “We wanted to create a permissionless protocol, kind of like the Uniswap of lending and borrowing, where users can activate their own lending markets as they see fit.""
The permissionless setup means more tokens can be listed, but there is also a higher level of risk that one asset suddenly plunging in value could spill from one liquidity pool to another.
Euler XYZ offsets that risk by classifying assets into risk-based tiers. Euler generally allows users to borrow/lend in multiple assets at one time and to use multiple assets as collateral. The riskiest assets, however, are placed in isolation pools where users can borrow and lend but can’t use as collateral in transactions involving non-isolation assets.
“The key aspect here is risk isolation. How can you isolate risk for users in a way that doesn’t massively fragment capital?” Bentley explained.
Euler is managed by holders of the native governance token Euler Governance Token (EUL). The upcoming launch of the Euler DAO will give holders the chance to vote on development and operations and determine how the community treasury is put to use.
“The near term for Euler is really focused on decentralization. As part of that, there will be lots of integrations coming down the line,” Bentley said.. “We’ve been talking to developers across the DeFi ecosystem that have been interested in integrating Euler into their workflows.”
Read more: Euler Finance Launches New DeFi Lending Platform in Crowded Market"
92,1168,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/07/first-mover-asia-when-it-comes-to-crypto-hong-kong-isnt-the-worlds-freest-economy-bitcoin-has-a-late-fall/,"First Mover Asia: When It Comes to Crypto, Hong Kong Isn’t the World’s ‘Freest Economy’; Bitcoin Has a Late Fall Below $30K",A memo by the city’s securities and futures regulator reminds investors of the risks of NFTs; altcoins surge and then drop.,2022-06-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos take a late dive.
Insights: Hong Kong is hardly laissez-faire when it comes to crypto.
Technician's take: BTC's current price range remains intact after several weeks of negative returns.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,515 -5.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,752 -6.5%
S&P 500: 4,121 +0.3%
DJIA: 32,915 +0.05%
Nasdaq: 12,061 +0.4%
Gold: $1,842 -0.5%
Bitcoin and Other Cryptos Take a Late Dive
Crypto investors were feeling more confident for much of Monday, sending bitcoin over the $31,000 level for the first time in six days before the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization took a late dive.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $29,500, down 5% over the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $1,730, down about 6% over the same period. Other major altcoins that had risen significantly earlier in the day, including SOL and ADA, were more in the red as investors wrestled with the months-long flow of more troubling news.
Still, a number of analysts said that bitcoin was unlikely to take any deeper drops for the time being.
""I think we may be putting in a bottom here with bitcoin,"" Greg King, CEO and founder of crypto asset manager Osprey Funds, told CoinDesk's ""First Mover"" program.
King noted that the presence of institutional investors has differentiated the latest price slump from previous crypto winters in 2013 and 2018, when bitcoin lost over 80% of its value. Bitcoin has currently dropped about 60% since hitting its all-time peak just short of $70,000 in November.
""Institutional buyers are buying this dip and then don't forget the macro environment,"" King said, noting the four-decade high inflation rate in the U.S. ""Zero yield assets such as gold and Bitcoin do very well"" at these times, he added.
Stocks rose slightly on Monday with the tech-focused Nasdaq and S&P 500 increasing about a half percentage point, as was the case for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Gold, a traditional safe-haven asset, fell about a half-percentage point. Investors were buoyed by last week's job report that suggested the economy might not plunge into recession any time soon. Some analysts also believe that inflation has peaked, although markets will be nervously eyeing this Friday's consumer price index report, which is expected to show inflation remaining stubbornly above 8%, a four-decade high.
Volatility continued to fade in crypto markets, while the fear and greed index ticked higher, although it is still registering squarely in extreme fear territory. Bitcoin has been trading in a tight range between $28,000 and $31,500 for the past month as investors wait for clearer signals about whether the economy will sink into recession or power through its current headwinds.
King believes the increasing correlation between cryptos and stocks will reverse to some degree, calling it a ""reflection of this kind of wild situation in macro markets where we have awful conditions and so it's more of a risk-on, risk-off type of mindset.""
""I personally think that crypto will emerge as – certainly things like bitcoin – as a relative safe haven as we continue to chop through an uncertain macro environment and especially if rates continue to rise and equities continue to tank, but I don't think that a long term correlation makes a lot of sense,"" he said.
Hong Kong Is Hardly Laissez-Faire When It Comes to Crypto
Hong Kong’s political freedom has eroded thanks to Beijing, though its laissez-faire economics – which have won accolades from the likes of Cato and the Heritage Foundation as the ""world’s freest economy"" – are still in its DNA.
For crypto, this isn’t the case. There are rules aplenty.
The Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission’s (SFC) issued a memo this week reminding investors about the inherent risks of non-fungible tokens (NFT).
“As with other virtual assets, NFTs are exposed to heightened risks, including illiquid secondary markets, volatility, opaque pricing, hacking and fraud. Investors should be mindful of these risks, and if they cannot fully understand them and bear the potential losses, they should not invest in NFTs,” the SFC wrote.
All of which is true.
But the problem is this looks like the beginning of a regulatory push into the NFT market by the SFC, which currently says that most NFTs fall outside its regulatory remit. And when the SFC regulates crypto, it takes a heavy hand. This severity is ironic considering the accolades that Hong Kong has received by the likes of Koch Foundation-funded Cato, which advocates for less economic regulation.
Consider the SFC’s prohibition on non-accredited investors trading crypto at exchanges. If this were the case in the United States, Coinbase (COIN) wouldn’t have a business model; its total market would be limited to the 13.6 million accredited investors in the country. For all the criticism the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has gotten about harming domestic innovation because of restrictive rules on crypto, banning non-accredited investors from trading crypto is something even SEC head Gary Gensler wouldn’t do.
Then there are Hong Kong’s murky rules on crypto infrastructure. Stakeholders have previously complained that the rules spread across too many different agencies for things like custody. Some critics have even called it a “double standard.” The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, its central bank, only recently greenlit crypto companies to open bank accounts – provided they only interact with accredited investors.
All this was too much for Sam Bankman-Fried and FTX. The crypto exchange that once called Hong Kong home decamped for the Bahamas in September, citing Hong Kong’s hostility towards crypto and never-ending quarantine regime.
For the world’s freest economy, there sure are a lot of heavy-handed rules regarding the future of finance. NFTs are likely to be next.
Bitcoin Bounces Above $27K-$30K Support Zone; Resistance at $33K-$35K
Bitcoin (BTC) experienced another relief bounce over the past 24 hours, similar to what occurred last weekend. The cryptocurrency is holding support above $27,000 and $30,000, which could keep short-term buyers active.
BTC is up by 4% over the past 24 hours and is down by 1% over the past week. That suggests the current price range remains intact, which is typical after several weeks of negative returns.
The recent downtrend in price has stabilized above the May 12 low at $25,338, which contributed to rising momentum on the daily chart. For example, the 14-day relative strength index (RSI) returned above the 50 neutral mark Monday after reaching extreme oversold levels on May 9.
Still, momentum remains negative on the weekly and monthly charts, which means an upswing in BTC could be limited. The next resistance zone is between $33,000 and $35,000.
U.S. Senate Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs hearing: Rising Threats: Ransomware Attacks and Ransom Payments Enabled by Cryptocurrency
12 p.m. HKT/SGT(4 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia interest rate decision and statement
4 p.m. HKT/SGT (8 a.m. UTC): China foreign exchange reserves (MoM/May)
CoinDesk's Consensus convention begins on June 9 and will run for three days. You can find an agenda and list of speakers here.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Discord Privacy Questioned After Bored Apes NFT Theft, Bitcoin Bounce, NY Mining Moratorium
Josh Fraser, Origin Protocol co-founder, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the Yuga Labs' Discord hack that led to the theft of non-fungible tokens worth a total of 200 ETH. Plus, Greg King of Osprey Funds provided crypto analysis, and BaSIC President Clark Vaccaro discussed the implications of the New York mining moratorium.
US Regulators Investigating Binance’s BNB Token: Report: The SEC is looking into whether the crypto exchange should have registered the initial coin offering of Binance coin as a security, according to Bloomberg.
Decentralized Exchanges Beat Centralized Counterparts for On-Chain Flows: Chainalysis: The data raises questions about regulation surrounding DEXs.
Yuga Labs Confirms Discord Server Hack; 200 ETH Worth of NFTs Stolen: The company behind the Bored Apes NFTs made the disclosure 11 hours after word of the exploit surfaced on Twitter.
Binance Labs Invests in PancakeSwap, CAKE Jumps Nearly 10%: Despite the rally, the token is still 36% below $7.46 a month ago after a challenging May for the crypto markets.
Consensus Festival Guide: Creator Summit, NFTs and Music: What not to miss this week at Consensus if you're into crypto-related creativity. We have you covered!
The Meme Economy: Those who grasp the memetic nature of not only crypto but all value can gain immense power from understanding natural flows of meaning. This piece is a preview of a talk to be given on the Big Ideas stage at Consensus 2022.
Today's crypto explainer: Everything You Always Wanted to Know About the Metaverse (but Were Afraid to Ask)
Other voices: The arrest heard ’round the crypto world
Coinbase’s decision to pull existing job offers is straightforwardly heinous. Imagine Coinbase offered you a job a week ago. You immediately put in your two weeks’ notice at the box factory where you’ve been grinding to feed your family while spending nights and weekends immersed in crypto. On Thursday you woke up excited to start a new gig in the exciting world of digital assets. Then you got a god-damned form email titled “Update to your Coinbase offer” and the update was “whoops, nevermind.” Seriously, Coinbase, get your act together. This is shameful behavior. (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""Yet, while Coinbase once again manages to excel in its public bumbling, it is not alone in facing headwinds. As the crypto economy slows, exchanges have been among the first to reveal cutbacks, in part because more of them are public or regulated firms. Robinhood (HOOD), which offers equity and crypto trading and saw hypergrowth during the coronavirus pandemic, has reversed course to cut 9% of staff. Mexican exchange Bitso and Middle Eastern exchange Rain Financial have also made cuts. The layoff announcement from the Winklevoss twins’ Gemini exchange may be the most provocatively framed. In announcing it is cutting 10% of staff, Gemini predicted the entire industry was “entering a period of stasis,” and explicitly warned of a coming 'crypto winter.'"" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... Mr. (John) Kerry told the BBC that despite these drawbacks, ""as a world we are still not moving fast enough"" to rein in the emissions of warming gases that are driving up temperatures. (Former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry)
UPDATE (June 7, 2022, 04:34 UTC): Updates bitcoin and ether price information and headline to reflect late declines."
93,477,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/algorithmic-stock-advisor-delphia-raises-60m-ahead-of-rewards-token-launch/,Algorithmic Stock Adviser Delphia Raises $60M Ahead of Rewards Token Launch,Investors will earn Delphia Data tokens for sharing personal shopping and social media data.,2022-06-08,"Algorithm-backed stock advisor Delphia has raised $60 million in a Series A funding round led by Multicoin Capital. The funding will be used to expand headcount and to launch the native Delphia Data rewards token.
Additional investors in the round included Ribbit Capital, FTX Ventures, Valor Equity Partners, FJ Labs, Lattice Ventures and Cumberland, among others.
Delphia’s mobile app offers actively managed, long-only strategies with no fees and $10 minimum investments. The adviser also has a hedge fund for accredited investors that has a long-short market neutral strategy covering about 2,500 U.S. equities.
“We're going to try and use lots of data to make predictions about where the companies are going, and we're going to try to perform above average,” Delphia CEO Andrew Peek explained during an interview with CoinDesk. “It's very hard to do in practice, but that is essentially the decision: Do you want to aim for average or do you want to aim for above average?”
The Delphia algorithm forecasts fundamentals for thousands of publicly traded companies and maps those predictions back to an expectation of the stock price, but it does that at eight different horizons, said Peek.
“If you're in the business of predicting fundamentals more accurately, you can unpack that into KPIs and downwards into the consumer trends in the market that are making up those KPIs,” Peek explained.
Starting this summer, Delphia will start offering a Delphia Data token to reward users willing to share personal data with the adviser.
“We think of consumer data generally as giving a signal about demand, but actually when you have a line with the individual providing the data you can get things like LinkedIn data or things that are not commercially available, which might point to other parts of a set of financial statements,” he continued.
Investors will need to have a Delphia account and “some skin in the game” (though that could be as low as $25) to be eligible, said Peek. The tokens are earned when a user connects whatever applications on their phone they feel comfortable sharing with Delphia.
The collected data could include Amazon purchase history, credit card transactions, LinkedIn, Venmo, Clickstream or other social media apps.
The reward is an ERC-20 token, which means it’s freely tradable. Token holders will also have access to membership benefits regarding financial products and services, such as a reduction in fees or early access to a new product.
The rewards token is intended to help with Delphia’s overall goal of bridging the gap between retail and institutional investors.
“It starts with the forecasting advantage, which is an institutional-grade forecasting advantage … we have institutions who do pay full fees to access a different version of this strategy,” said Peek. ”Those fees are redistributed back to those contributing the data.”"
94,1167,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/10/where-the-coins-go-inside-ukraines-125m-wartime-fundraise/,Where the Coins Go: Inside Ukraine’s $135M Wartime Fundraise,Subtitle not found,2022-06-10,"Cryptocurrencies’ prices might rise or fall, but their capacity to break through borders remains invaluable – especially in wartime.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine Feb. 24 in a countrywide military assault, governments and individuals worldwide have been helping Ukraine survive, sending weapons and money. A notable part of those funds has been in crypto, making a difference on the ground, fundraisers told CoinDesk.
Read also: Ukraine Details What Crypto Donations Are Being Spent On
Over $135 million in crypto had been raised by Ukrainian funds by mid-May, analytics firm Crystal Blockchain told CoinDesk. This might look small compared with the $579 million raised in fiat for the Armed Forces of Ukraine but, the crypto community’s support for Ukraine looks strong.
The world had been arming Ukraine even before the invasion, when Russian troops massed along the Ukrainian border. But after the first bombs hit Ukrainian cities, enthusiasm to help the country skyrocketed, said the co-founder of the Palianytsia charity fund, Anton Kosheliev.
Kosheliev is also running a couple of brick-and-mortar businesses in Ukraine, a logistics firm called Joule and a coffee roasting company, Marco. With a community of like-minded Ukrainian entrepreneurs, many of whom are a part of the local crypto community, he co-founded a humanitarian aid effort, which has raised over $2 million.
“We also accepted donations from bank cards, but successful transfers made only about 70% of all,” Kosheliev said. Many people tried donating from abroad; for many countries Ukraine, as well as the whole Eastern Europe region, is a risky area. So the local banks looked at transfers to Ukraine with particular scrutiny, he said, adding, “A significant amount of money failed to reach us.”
Europeans “saw the news and rushed to post offices” to send over packages of help to Ukraine, Kosheliev said. “Everyone wanted to do something so that it all ends.”
Some days up to 30 trucks full of humanitarian supplies would arrive during the day, he said, and all of it needed to be sorted and sent to those who needed them. Palianytsia decided to work only with big aid recipients such as city administrations and hospitals.
“There was a lot of clothing, which needed to be sorted. We hired a bunch of volunteers. Many people were ready to deliver the aid in their cars, even to dangerous places,” he added.
Kosheliev and his fellow entrepreneurs rented a big warehouse and started building a refugee shelter in Lviv, a city in Western Ukraine where the bombs weren’t expected to land as often as in the Eastern part of the country bordering Russia.
“We agreed at the start that we’re a humanitarian organization, not a militant one,” Kosheliev said. “We understood that Lviv is an important hub between Ukraine and Europe, and we need to get the infrastructure ready here to help supply the whole Ukraine.”
“More than a half of all merchants agree to accept crypto,” said Alex Bornyakov, Ukraine’s deputy minister of digital transformation. The Ministry of Digital Transformation initiated a fund called Aid for Ukraine, which is raising funds for non-lethal aid for the armed forces.
Bornyakov said that the ministry itself neither accepts donations to its wallets nor spends them; rather, it helps volunteers to fund their purchases. In some cases, volunteers already know what and from whom they are buying but need additional funding to pay the bill, he told CoinDesk. And the crypto treasury is held by the Ukrainian crypto exchange Kuna.
Since the beginning of the war Aid for Ukraine has raised over $60 million in crypto, according to the official website. This consists of over 477 BTC ($14.3 million), 9,587 ETH ($17.1 million), $9.9 million in stablecoins running on Ethereum (USDT, USDC, DAI) and more in other cryptocurrencies.
Most of the donations were large ones from big donors, most of them Ukrainians and entrepreneurs doing business with Ukraine from around the world, Bornyakov said.
It’s impossible to buy weapons with crypto, Bornyakov said, because such deals run on special, stricter terms. However, Aid for Ukraine has successfully bought drones, bulletproof vests and medical supplies. “No one minded receiving crypto as payment. It’s quite normal in the U.S. and Europe now,” Bornyakov said.
Some merchants told the fund they were going to open a Coinbase account and then receive payments to it. Some gave their personal wallet addresses, Bornyakov said, and then decided what to do with the crypto received. Donations in fiat have been much larger, he said, with about 40% coming in crypto.
According to Michael Chobanian, founder of Kuna and Aid for Ukraine’s main treasurer, over half of all crypto donations have been spent in crypto. U.S. merchants sold about 500,000 food kits for crypto. Protective vests, thermal goggles, gunsights and surveillance drones were paid for with crypto.
In some cases, merchants already had crypto wallets or exchange accounts; if not, Kuna helped them go through fast-track verification with the FTX crypto exchange, another partner of Aid for Ukraine. But some “especially stubborn” merchants only agreed to accept fiat, and for them the fund converted crypto to fiat via FTX and then sent it to the seller, Chobanian said.
For smaller charity funds with no direct coordination with the government, using crypto as a payment method proved trickier, said Oleg Kurchenko, founder of the Binaryx.com exchange and co-founder of the Unchain.Fund. According to its official website, the fund raised over $9,5 million in bitcoin, ether, various stablecoins and other tokens, such as SOL, NEAR and AVAX.
Unchain works like a distributed autonomous organization (DAO): Donations come to multisignature wallets on 14 blockchains. To spend them, four out of 10 publicly known signers must confirm the transaction. Being a DAO for the real world, especially at war, is a challenging task, Kurchenko said, because there are no oracles that can fully control the distribution of funds among those in need, and decentralized decision-making can take a long time.
Read more: 'Absolutely Surreal': Inside a Fund Raising Millions in Crypto for Besieged Ukraine
Unchain helps volunteers working on the ground in Ukraine buy food, medicine, electric generators, bulletproof vests and other survival supplies. In most cases, merchants would only accept fiat, so Unchain would cash out its coins via one of the Ukrainian exchanges: Kuna, WhiteBit or Wield.money.
“There were merchants who agreed to accept crypto, but that was rare; often, companies wouldn’t do it because of the regulations” in their countries, Kurchenko said, adding: “If you’re working with a European merchant, how would you explain to them they should report their taxes in crypto?”
Unchain also launched its own debit card for mothers in partnership with Ukraine’s Unex bank. A mom with one child can receive 50 euros a week and with two children, 75 euros. This means each family member would receive about 100 euros a month to support basic needs. According to Kurchenko, about 6,000 people are now using such cards. The grants are in fiat, he said.
Sometimes, non-Ukranians apply for the card to take advantage of the situation, but Unchain’s team can verify whether an applicant is Ukrainian or not, Kurchenko said. He refused to explain the verification process so that fraudsters don’t use this information.
Kurchenko admits that the verification process is running partly on trust: During a humanitarian crisis it’s hard to verify that every single applicant for help actually needs it.
Now, with the war over three months old, the flow of fresh funds is weakening.
“First two months the support was huge, but now it’s dying down. It’s becoming a kind of mundane situation and people don’t feel like donating much to support the initiative,” Kurchenko said. The fund is running out of money, and the bear market for crypto doesn’t help.
“When we needed an ambulance car we were searching all over Europe and we came across a British company that went bankrupt. It had 26 cars, and we bought them for $200,000,” Kosheliev said. The money came in crypto: An intermediary who helped the fund buy the cars accepted crypto to his own wallet. How he later transferred it to fiat money, Kosheliev doesn’t know, he said.
“It was just someone’s cold wallet, and they told us they found a way to cash the crypto out,” he added. The person who arranged the deal from the U.K. side did not want to comment, even anonymously, he said.
The ambulances, he said, ended up in the parking lot of the Healthcare Ministry of Ukraine, after some checks and tuning in local auto repair shops.
Some merchants were open to receiving crypto for medical supplies, including first aid kits and tourniquets (blood-stopping devices) that the Palianytsia fund has been purchasing at scale, Kosheliev said. “Sometimes, people just sympathized with us and were motivated to help us,” he said, so people agreed to receive crypto. These were more special cases than a regular occurrence, he said.
“We actually thought there would be more merchants ready to accept crypto,” he said, adding that in his ordinary business, he dealt with Turkish counterparties a lot, importing food and clothing, and in Turkey, “every merchant knows what crypto is” and would likely agree to accept it. However, this wasn’t the case with the medical supplies, he said.
In Ukraine, when merchants routinely accept crypto, they cash out first and then write it down in their accounting ledgers as cash, Kosheliev said.
Abroad, it’s always peer-to-peer transfers when people on the other side accept crypto and then decide what to do with it.
Informal arrangements prevail when smaller, private funds are trying to spend crypto they raised.
Volunteers, who buy supplies to help the army and civilians, have to rely either on cash dollars and euros or crypto, because private bank transfers of large amounts of money across the border simply aren’t possible for ordinary citizens: The National Bank of Ukraine limited sending money out of Ukraine to prevent capital flight, said Matvii Sivoraksha, CEO of blockchain startup MadFish.Solutions. (The restrictions have been recently softened.)
Sivoraksha told CoinDesk he personally convinced a shop in the Netherlands selling surveillance drones to accept crypto just because doing so was faster and easier than fiat alternatives. Legally turning bitcoin into euros on a European Union (EU) bank account took so long that the drone seller had time to discuss accepting crypto with its legal counsel and decide in favor of it.
In Ukraine, “any volunteer or merchant would accept crypto now,” Sivoraksha added.
Palianytsia, which received $500,000 from leading crypto exchange Binance, is using Binance to cash out most of its funds: in most cases, the donations are being spent in fiat, Kosheliev said. To cash out crypto donations, Palianytsia’s operational director sells crypto on Binance through his own account, then puts it into the fund’s treasury as a donation, Kosheliev said.
Palianytsia is also working with Binance on a refugee crypto debit card, Kosheliev said: The fund is verifying aid beneficiaries, who would each receive three tranches of $75 in crypto. Since the project launched in late April, Palianytsia’s volunteers have verified and onboarded about 1,000 people, Binance told CoinDesk.
“The team has put in place an on-the-ground verification process to identify the most vulnerable populations including single mothers, those suffering with illnesses and ethnic minorities. We are grateful for their and our other partners' unrelenting efforts, which means we're able to reach more people, quicker,” a Binance spokesperson said in a written statement.
Kosheliev said he has met with refugees in Ukrainian shelters a few times and helped them set up the Binance mobile app. His colleagues shot a video on their phones: Kosheliev is sitting on a bench with a group of women crowding around him, listening and looking at his phone.
“My friends were joking that I’ve never been that popular with the ladies before,” he said with a giggle.
Ultimately, crypto offers a way for individuals to coordinate and help outside government control, while staying transparent, Kosheliev said: “We trust the community more than we trust the government. The community helps check and validate people.”
CORRECTION (June 11, 2022, 09:01 UTC): Corrects amount dollar amount in headline to $135 million."
95,1169,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/13/crypto-lending-service-celsius-pauses-withdrawals-citing-extreme-market-conditions/,"Crypto Lending Service Celsius Pauses Withdrawals, Citing 'Extreme Market Conditions'","The company will also pause its swap and transfer products, according to a blog post.",2022-06-13,"Crypto lending service Celsius announced early Monday it would pause withdrawals, citing ""extreme market conditions.""
The company announced it would also pause its swap and transfer products, according to a blog post. It did not provide a timeline for resuming withdrawals.
""We are working with a singular focus: to protect and preserve assets to meet our obligations to customers. Our ultimate objective is stabilizing liquidity and restoring withdrawals, Swap, and transfers between accounts as quickly as possible. There is a lot of work ahead as we consider various options, this process will take time, and there may be delays,"" the blog post said.
The announcement comes on top of Celsius telling nonaccredited investors that they could no longer transfer funds.
The company also recently replaced its chief financial officer, after former Chief Financial Officer Yaron Shalem was arrested by Israeli police in 2021.
The price of Celsius's CEL token fell over 50% after the news came out.
The company has also faced regulatory issues, with law enforcement entities issuing cease-and-desist orders against it.
Crypto reporter Colin Wu, who goes by @WuBlockchain on Twitter, posted Monday that Celsius has transferred about 104,000 ETH to FTX in the past three days.
Update: Celsius has transferred about 104,000 ETH to FTX in the past three days, including about 50,000 ETH today, 12,000 ETH yesterday, and 42,000 ETH the day before yesterday. In addition, Celsius also transferred about 9,500 WBTC to FTX today.https://t.co/RaiJTJIVm9 https://t.co/1RQaa9fT3u
Read more: What Crypto Lender Celsius Isn’t Telling Its Depositors
UPDATE (June 13, 2022, 04:29 UTC): Adds Wu Blockhain's comment in final paragraph."
96,296,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/14/celsiuss-cel-token-jumps-8-fold-in-intraday-spike/,Celsius’s CEL Token Jumps 8-Fold in Intraday Spike,The lender’s token reached a high of $2.57 in what appears to be a short squeeze.,2022-06-14,"The beleaguered crypto lending platform Celsius’s CEL token jumped eight-fold to an intraday high of $2.57 from 30 cents, according to data from FTX.
But in the hour after the spike, the price of CEL fell back and was trading at about 54 cents as of press time. According to data from CoinMarketCap, that price put the market capitalization of CEL at approximately $125 million.
That's still up from 35 cents prior to a recent crash when Celsius halted withdrawals on Sunday, June 12, citing ""extreme market conditions.""
? pic.twitter.com/6jPuR5NiSf
In response to the news, Celsius’s CEL token plummeted to 18 cents from 35 cents Sunday evening, a decline of 48%.
According to exchange data, it appears the latest price jump was brought on by a big spot buyer on crypto exchange FTX.
A trader who spoke with CoinDesk says the price action was indicative of a short squeeze, as shorting Celsius’s token had become an “overcrowded trade.” A ""short"" position is when traders bet on a token's price to fall.
A short squeeze occurs when the price of a token moves sharply higher, prompting traders who bet against it – often with borrowed money or tokens – to buy it back or ""cover"" the position, to avoid greater losses.
Questions surrounding Celsius's financial health have been making waves in cryptocurrency markets.
Celsius just repaid another $28m DAI .
$15,151 liquidation price . https://t.co/Sp8mkpEYoO pic.twitter.com/ajsgeqq4qM
On Tuesday morning, Celsius appears to have paid off $28 million of its outstanding loan on Maker, a decentralized finance protocol that lends out DAI, a stablecoin. The firm appears to have an additional $250 million outstanding on its bitcoin-collateralized loan."
97,1170,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/14/market-wrap-btc-tumbles-further-ahead-of-fed-meeting-extreme-fear-among-traders/,Market Wrap: BTC Tumbles Further Ahead of Fed Meeting; Extreme Fear Among Traders,"Bitcoin hovered around $22,000, down about 5% over the past 24 hours.",2022-06-14,"The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization dropped further on Tuesday as crypto industry layoffs widened and traders fretted over a likely steeper-than-expected rate hike by the U.S. central bank.
Down for the eighth consecutive day, bitcoin regained little strength after falling to a 30-month low of $20,834.50 on Monday night but was still down over 5% over the past 24 hours.
The 15% price drop at the start of the week was the biggest since the crash prompted by COVID-19 on March 12, 2020.
Not just bitcoin, but cryptocurrencies of all market cap sizes have suffered in the current sell-off, tracking steep declines in stocks, as Arcane Research noted in a report Tuesday.
“We're coming off of about a decade of monetary stimulus and money supply has grown rapidly, and for the first time market participants are getting the punch bowl taken away from them,” said Fundstrat Global Advisors head of digital asset strategy Sean Farrell on CoinDesk TV. “I think we're still going to need to see inflation start to roll over before we can be confident in any run to the upside and relief to the upside.”
An article in The Wall Street Journal on Monday hinted at a 75 basis point rate hike by the Fed at the conclusion of its two-day, closed-door meeting Wednesday.
This leaves traders fearing monetary tightening throughout the year with no break, as Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic suggested earlier this month, temporarily buoying crypto markets. Economists at Goldman Sachs (GS) now are forecasting 75 basis point rate hikes for both June and July, followed by a 50 basis point increase in September plus a 25 basis point hike in November and in December.
“Investors should be braced for volatility and sticky correlations at least in the coming days,” Arcane researchers wrote.
As a result, the bitcoin Fear and Greed Index reached 8, signaling extreme fear. While the market has been in extreme fear territory for the 56th consecutive month, this level hasn't been seen since March 2020.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $22185, −4.99%
●Ether (ETH): $1206, −3.12%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3735, −0.38%
●Gold: $1809 per troy ounce, −1.04%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.48%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
By Tracy Wang
The beleaguered crypto lending platform Celsius’s CEL token jumped eight-fold to an intraday high of $2.57 from 30 cents, according to data from FTX, before falling back to about 54 cents. That's still up from 35 cents prior to a recent crash when Celsius halted withdrawals on June 12, citing ""extreme market conditions.""
According to exchange data, it appears the latest price jump stemmed from a big spot buyer on crypto exchange FTX.
A trader who spoke with CoinDesk says the price action indicated a short squeeze, as shorting Celsius’s token had become an “overcrowded trade.” A ""short"" position is when traders bet on a token's price to fall.
A short squeeze occurs when the price of a token moves sharply higher, prompting traders who bet against it – often with borrowed money or tokens – to buy it back or ""cover"" the position, to avoid greater losses.
Questions surrounding Celsius's financial health have been making waves in cryptocurrency markets.
ETH underperformance echoes ‘Crypto Winter’: The largest altcoin, ether (ETH), is underperforming bitcoin (BTC), just as it did during the downturn in crypto markets in 2018, investment bank Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a report Monday. “When the ETH/BTC relative cross falls, it is a sign that the broader crypto enthusiasm is waning” as money is being pulled out of the more volatile alternative coins, according to the note. The analysts added that this time around it’s largely institutional investors driving sales. ETH has dropped about 75% from its November peak, and changed hands at $1,215. Read more here.
Shorts and longs liquidated: Crypto-tracked futures lost over $1 billion in a day as major cryptocurrencies declined by an average of over 15%, data shows. Among altcoin futures, ether (ETH) liquidations led with $308 million in liquidations, followed by SOL with $18.8 million and ADA with $7.5 million. The move-to-earn app Stepn’s GMT futures saw $6.6 million in losses. Liquidations happen when a trader fails to have sufficient funds to keep a leveraged position open so the trade is forced to close. Read more here.
OpenSea change: The leading non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace OpenSea is revamping its back end and moving from the Wyvern protocol to its self-developed Seaport protocol. The company estimates the switch will save users $460 million in the next year by lowering transaction costs on the platform. The move will also allow OpenSea to eliminate initiation fees, let users make offers on entire collections and make its wallet signatures easier to read and understand, the firm said. Read more here.
Coinbase Lays Off Around 1,100 Employees: The exchange is reducing its workforce by roughly 18%. CEO Brian Armstrong admits the company ""grew too quickly.""
EU Finance Commissioner Calls for Speedy Passage of Crypto Law: Mairead McGuinness also said if it were in place the MiCA framework could also facilitate sanctions implementation.
MicroStrategy Defended at BTIG; Saylor Not Expecting Imminent Margin Call: Shares of the technology company have tumbled alongside bitcoin, down 35% over the past few days and nearly 75% so far this year.
With Market Crash, El Salvador Is Down $52M on Its Bitcoin Bet: The country has made $104 million in investments in the cryptocurrency since it made bitcoin legal tender last September.
Bond Traders Raise Bets for Fed Rate Hike, Adding to BTC Pressure: The CME FedWatch Tool shows traders see a 94% chance of a 75 basis-point hike to be announced Wednesday.
NY City Mayor Eric Adams Wants State's Governor to Veto 2-Year Moratorium on PoW Mining: The city's pro-crypto mayor plans to ask Gov. Kathy Hochul to veto the bill to stop proof-of-work mining temporarily.
Gaming DAO Merit Circle, YGG ‘Terminate Relationship’: Merit Circle members had proposed canceling YGG’s investment in the organization because of a lack of perceived added value. Now the two are parting ways.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
98,778,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/14/consensus-2022-was-the-crypto-bull-markets-goodbye-party/,Consensus 2022 Was the Crypto Bull Market's Goodbye Party,Subtitle not found,2022-06-14,"The first flurries of crypto winter fell before Consensus 2022.
Just a few weeks before 20,000 people descended on Austin, Texas, for CoinDesk’s annual festival, the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin collapsed, wiping over $80 billion from the total crypto market cap and triggering a wave of sell-offs. Coinbase slammed the brakes on hiring and announced it would be rescinding already-accepted job offers – despite earlier promises the Nasdaq-listed exchange would do no such thing.
Despite the growing chill in the markets – or perhaps because of them – Consensus was a blowout.
For four days, conference-goers ate, drank and were merry. They traversed the city on scooters in the Texas heat, bouncing between networking sessions and hackathons in various hotels to sessions in the Austin Convention Center (ACC), featuring some of the biggest names in crypto and culture including whistleblower Edward Snowden, FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried and rapper 2 Chainz.
Attendees eagerly collected DESK, CoinDesk’s social token, and used it to pay for tacos and barbecue from food trucks or Consensus-branded merchandise. At night, they swapped DESK for drink tokens at Consensus-affiliated after-parties, like the one headlined by electronic music duo Disclosure.
Consensus-adjacent events including the Helium House ATX, sponsored by the rapidly-expanding Helium protocol, also thrived. Catered dinners and parties sponsored by companies such as Binance drew large crowds, and industry insiders rubbed elbows with regulators and investors at invite-only events, like lobbying group Coin Center’s annual dinner.
In hindsight, Coin Center’s (seed oil-free, naturally) dinner seems more akin to a Last Supper, and its theme – inspired by the “This is Fine” meme, in which a dog in a tiny hat sips coffee in a burning room – feels prescient.
On Sunday morning, Consensus 2022 wrapped up with a well-attended interview between CoinDesk’s Emily Parker and Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao. Zhao’s proclamations of having a “healthy war chest” to weather the coming crypto winter were met with cheers from the audience.
Later that evening, crypto lending service Celsius halted its withdrawals and other products, sending the markets into a panic. On Monday, the price of bitcoin (BTC) plummeted, going as low as $20,834 in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Later on Tuesday, Coinbase announced mass layoffs, slashing nearly 20% of its workforce and leaving approximately 1,100 people without jobs.
As the flurries of crypto winter turned into a blizzard, Consensus offered attendees a brief shelter from the storm, a warm hearth to gather around and meet friends, tell stories and plan for the future.
The WAGMI (“we’re all going to make it”) optimism of the bull market is fading fast, but, hey – at least we had fun in Austin.
CoinDesk’s social token, DESK, made its debut as a full-fledged blockchain token at this year’s Consensus.
The beta version used at last year’s virtual Consensus – which could be obtained by visiting various sessions and exchanged for CoinDesk merch and non-fungible tokens (NFT) – was enormously popular, and developed a fanbase that named themselves “Piranhas” for their insatiable hunger for DESK.
To appease the Piranhas in Austin, CoinDesk made DESK bigger than ever, bringing it from the experimental environment of Ethereum’s testnet to Polygon, a live blockchain, and offering in-person events to teach attendees how to redeem and use their DESK.
DESK could be obtained by scanning QR codes posted around the conference, or completing quests given on the DESK Discord server, such as taking selfies in various places or shooting hoops at the Sport Court.
Over 20% of Consensus attendees used DESK during the festival, collectively spending approximately 200,000 tokens on food, drinks and merch. Dozens of helpful volunteers in bright yellow DESK T-shirts swarmed the convention center, offering help to confused attendees.
It wasn’t all sunshine and rainbows, though: Some would-be DESK Piranhas got greedy, tearing down QR code stickers from signs in an attempt to redeem more than their share and prevent others from getting DESK. Scammers printed fake “DESK multiplier” QR codes and stuck them to DESK posters, hoping to scam DESK users out of the contents of their wallets.
Turns out that even if it’s just DESK, the old crypto adage of “Do Your Own Research” still applies.
Consensus has always been an occasion for gimmicky spectacle – the 2018 event, which attracted roughly 8,000 attendees, famously featured several Lamborghinis that were parked out front of the conference.
In Austin, however, the Lambos were absent, replaced with even more expensive McLarens. One, wrapped in a pattern of hundreds of overlapping DOGE Shiba inu faces, attracted a large crowd when its owner, crypto influencer Julia Love, parked it in front of the Hilton.
The demo of “Crypto: the Musical” on June 10 was also a spectacle. The brainchild of Amanda Cassatt, CEO of crypto marketing firm Serotonin, the would-be Broadway show aims to tell the story of “one woman’s journey fleeing the corporate world to join a crypto startup.”
The aspiring theatrical project’s creative team (who also produced “Ratatouille: the TikTok Musical”) and performers serenaded the audience with two songs from the show, including one about the Howey Test – a framework created by the U.S. Supreme Court to determine whether transactions qualify as securities.
Consensus 2022 also featured the first MetaGala, a black-tie event where crypto investors, influencers and artists came together to drink (cocktails had themed names, such as the Metarita, the Meta Mule and the Meta Spritz), dance and raise money for several charities.
Though this year’s Consensus was the first held in Austin after years in New York or virtually because of COVID-19, the Texas capital turned out to be a perfect fit for the festival.
The spirit of Austin meshed well with crypto, and Consensus attendees embraced the entertainment and culture the city had to offer.
When they weren’t buying food with DESK, attendees ate at famous local restaurants including the Texas Chili Parlor and Franklin’s Barbecue, they went to drag queen brunches on 4th Street, and they cooled off at Barton Springs – a spring-fed pool in Zilker Park beloved by locals for its notoriously cold water.
On the final day of the conference, Austin Mayor Steve Adler joined CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey to announce that Consensus will return to his city next year, although, to beat the 100-degree heat, it will be moved from June to late April.
Though Austin was sweltering, Consensus-goers may miss the Texas heat after returning home to headlines about layoffs, price slumps and a once-highflying lender’s potential insolvency.
Consensus was a respite from the cold – and, hopefully for many, a fortification. Now it’s over. Crypto winter is here. Bundle up."
99,860,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/14/cryptos-see-over-1b-in-liquidations-as-bitcoin-ether-lose-major-support-levels/,"Cryptos See Over $1B in Liquidations as Bitcoin, Ether Lose Major Support Levels","Bitcoin lost the $25,000 level, while ether briefly slid to nearly $1,200.",2022-06-14,"Crypto-tracked futures lost over $1 billion in the past 24 hours, weighed down by a weak sentiment for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies amid a weak global economic outlook, data shows.
Liquidation refers to when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader is unable to meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).
The losses came as bitcoin (BTC) lost a major support level under $25,000 Monday, with crypto market capitalization reaching levels previously seen in January 2021. Major cryptocurrencies declined by an average of over 15%, as reported.
Bitcoin accounted for over $532 million of all liquidations, followed by ether (ETH) at $317 million and Solana’s SOL token at nearly $20 million. Futures tracking Cardano’s ADA, Stepn’s GMT, and Binance ecosystem token BNB saw over $6 million in losses each, with some 213,000 individual trading accounts seeing liquidations in the past 24 hours.
Longs, or traders betting on higher prices, saw over $510 million in liquidations. Shorts, or bets on lower prices, saw $554 million in losses, suggesting futures traders added to market volatility and affected traders almost equally in either direction.
Crypto exchange FTX recorded over $417 million in liquidations, the most among its counterparts, followed by OKX at $251 million and Binance at $198 million.
Open interest – or the number of unsettled futures contracts – decreased by 7% in the past 24 hours to $23 billion, suggesting a considerable number of traders closed their positions expecting further market volatility.
Bitcoin traded at just over $22,000 in European hours Tuesday, continuing a nearly 12-week slide. The asset has lost some 66% of its value from lifetime highs of $69,000 in November.
Much of the decline in the past few months has come as the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) plans to hike rates in the coming months to battle the ill effects of record inflation – a move that has inadvertently caused a slide in global stocks and subsequently cryptocurrencies as investors take money off assets deemed risky.
Sentiment among market observers remains bearish with some warning of ""severe losses"" ahead."
100,1165,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/14/jpmorgan-cuts-coinbase-to-neutral-with-68-price-target-shares-slump/,JPMorgan Cuts Coinbase to Neutral With $68 Price Target; Shares Slump,"It will be challenging for the exchange to generate a profit in the near future, the bank’s analysts said.",2022-06-14,"The extreme decline in cryptocurrency markets in the second quarter of this year combined with Coinbase’s (COIN) ramp-up in investment, means it will be challenging for the exchange to generate a profit in the near term, JPMorgan said in a report Tuesday.
The bank cut its rating on the stock to neutral from overweight and slashed its price target to $68 from $171.
Since the company generates a large part of its revenue from the value of crypto token prices - from trading, staking and custody - and much of the rest based on sentiment, the recent downturn is likely to have a “material negative impact on Coinbase revenue,” the report says.
JPMorgan estimates that trading volumes on Coinbase have fallen more than 30% in the second quarter of this year, following a 40% decline in the first.
Coinbase has significantly increased the pace of investment in recent quarters, hiring 3,200 staff over the last year, with 1,200 hired in the first quarter alone, the note says. This is a huge amount of recruitment for the exchange, which now has around 5,000 employees, according to the note.
However, Coinbase had later paused recruitment and rescinded some job offers following the recent market downturn, as reported. The hiring freeze should stop expense growth from mid-May, JPM noted.
Coinbase may need to do more than just implement a hiring freeze and might have to reduce expense levels to keep EBITDA losses within its $500 million guidance cap for 2022, the report says.
Against this backdrop of a more difficult macro environment, the bank notes that rival exchange FTX has overtaken Coinbase in terms of crypto activity in May and has continued to outpace Coinbase in June.
Coinbase shares fell close to 6% in premarket trading to $49.09.
Read more: ‘You Will Be Fired’: Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong Lambastes Anonymous ‘Operation Revive COIN’ Petitioner
CORRECTION (June 14, 11:56 UTC): Corrects share fall in 9th paragraph."
101,643,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/14/staked-ether-becomes-focus-of-crypto-stress-from-celsius-to-three-arrows/,"'Staked Ether' Becomes Focus of Crypto Stress, From Celsius to Three Arrows","The price gap between the locked-up ether on Lido and spot ether jumped to record highs as large holders sell their tokens, drawing concern of a potential ripple effect on crypto lending markets.",2022-06-14,"A token known as ""staked ether"" has suddenly become a key focus for crypto traders trying to monitor extreme stress in digital-asset markets, as important players from the beleaguered lender Celsius to the hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and the industry heavyweight Sam Bankman-Fried's Alameda Research are dumping their holdings.
The key metric is the discount between the price of staked ether (stETH) – a token from the Lido Finance protocol that's supposed to trade at a price close to ether (ETH), the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain – and the price of ether itself.
The discount shot to a record 8% on Monday, according to data by Dune Analytics.
The speculation, according to analysts, is that crypto market makers and lenders might be forced to dump their holdings of the stETH tokens to fund withdrawals and meet margin calls.
Staked ether was launched by decentralized-finance (DeFi) platform Lido Finance as a way to provide liquidity to traders who are ""staking"" their ether on Ethereum's Beacon Chain. It's all part of the process by which Ethereum is transitioning to a ""proof-of-stake"" blockchain. Without going into all the details, participants in the system have to commit to locking up their tokens for a period of time to help process transactions; in return they receive crypto rewards. But in the meantime, they can take stETH tokens and continue to trade.
Lido dominates the Ethereum staking ecosystem, with about one-third of all staked ether deposits. In May, Goldman Sachs wrote that such a concentration of deposits “can theoretically increase systemic risk” because of Lido’s interconnections to crypto markets.
Celsius, a crypto lender that has come under scrutiny since it froze withdrawals last weekend, citing ""extreme market conditions,"" holds 409,260 stETH tokens, worth about $470 million at current prices, according to data provided by Ape Board, a portfolio tracker from the blockchain analysis firm Nansen.
Johnny Louey and Andy Hoo, analysts at Huobi Research Institute, the research arm of the Huobi crypto exchange, wrote in a note Tuesday that Celsius took a loss of almost $71 million earlier from staking stETH on Stakehound because Stakehound misplaced the keys.
Worried Celsius users started a rapid wave of redemptions at a rate of around 50,000 ETH per week, the report added, and the platform was scrambling for liquidity.
“What Celsius can do is sell its stETH in order to buy ETH on the market to satisfy client requests,” Noelle Acheson, head of market insights at crypto market maker Genesis, told CoinDesk. (Genesis and CoinDesk are both owned by Digital Currency Group.)
The stETH discount initially opened up last month, when crypto markets were roiled by the collapse of the Terra blockchain network and its stablecoin UST. Since then, stETH has mostly traded at a discount of 2-3%, with a spike to 5% on May 12 when UST fell into a death spiral.
The market capitalization of stETH has dropped to $4 billion from about $10 billion at the start of May, driven by holders who are fleeing staking platforms as ether’s price crashes.
Three Arrows Capital, a Singapore-based trading and investing firm that was one of the biggest investors in the Terra blockchain, withdrew nearly $400 million of stETH and ETH from the Curve protocol in May, Andrew Thurman, a Nansen analyst, told CoinDesk.
Three Arrows Capital, often shorthanded as 3AC, “has caught the attention of the on-chain community in recent weeks with how they’ve been managing their stETH position,"" Thurman said.
Data from Nansen shows that a wallet attributed to 3AC withdrew 80,000 stETH from decentralized lending protocol Aave Tuesday and converted 38,900 stETH (some $45 million) in two transactions at an 5.6-5.9% discount rate for ether.
That came after rumors on crypto Twitter that the investment firm may be facing financial difficulties.
Representatives of 3AC didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.
Last week, another big-name trading firm, Alameda – which is closely connected to Sam Bankman-Fried, founder and CEO of crypto exchange FTX – dumped 50,615 stETH, worth about $88 million at the time, according to a tweet from Hsaka, a popular crypto trader.
Another reason for the discount is the relative illiquidity of staked ether, Acheson said.
Investors are fleeing risky assets such as cryptocurrencies as financial markets around the world decline in response to central banks raising interest rates to fight inflation. That is squeezing crypto platforms to meet customer redemptions. At the same time, investors now prefer to hold assets that are more liquid.
The daily trading volume of stETH is in the hundreds of thousands of dollars, compared with ETH’s daily volume in the billions, making the less-liquid asset’s price more sensitive to selling pressure. When a big player needs to sell its holdings, it may find fewer buyers, pushing down the price of stETH.
“In the short term, stETH will face tremendous selling pressure,"" Huobi Research Institute’s report concluded. ""Turbulence is expected in the near future.”"
102,861,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/15/crypto-market-chaos-no-lido-is-not-the-next-terra/,"Crypto Market Chaos: No, Lido Is Not ‘the Next Terra’","After over $1 billion in liquidations in just 24 hours, DeFi’s wild west period may be drawing to a close – but not everything’s a sham.",2022-06-15,"So, uh, not sure if you’ve looked out the window at all today … but Ethereum (and DeFi and NFTs) might be on fire.
After last month’s $40 billion crash of the Terra blockchain ecosystem, a long list of decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols are facing renewed scrutiny this week from investors who believe the music has stopped for crypto products with risky – and in some cases, outright nonexistent – fundamentals.
This article originally appeared in Valid Points, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter breaking down Ethereum’s evolution and its impact on crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
The “number go up” party is over, retail investors are getting wiped out and billions in losses have been reported across big name balance sheets – fomenting fears that some of the biggest names in DeFi will be forced to liquidate their assets and dump on the market, pushing prices down even further.
Amid the turmoil, Lido Finance’s staked ether (stETH) – an Ethereum-based token representing ETH “staked” on Ethereum’s proof-of-stake Beacon Chain, is being closely watched. stETH, while not exactly “pegged” to the price of actual ETH, has traditionally traded at around the same price because stETH represents a 1:1 claim on ETH staked on the Beacon Chain.
Read more: Lido Briefly Becomes Top DeFi Protocol by TVL With $20B Staked
Today, stETH – which powers an increasingly large segment of DeFi’s borrowing, lending and casino-lite economy – is trading roughly 7% lower than the price of ETH. For those who held or borrowed stETH on the assumption that it and ETH are synonymous, this is a big haircut.
The stETH price drop has fueled some worries on Twitter and elsewhere that Lido is “the next Terra.” What if stETH, which represents around 33% of all staked ether (or around $5 billion), were to drop to zero?
Fortunately, such worries aren’t grounded in actual understanding of how stETH works under the hood.
In this week’s newsletter, we’ll talk a bit about what’s going on in the markets and what it means for stETH and Ethereum as a whole.
Decentralized finance, which was born on Ethereum and then skyrocketed in popularity with the DeFi summer of 2020, set out to provide users with financial tools outside of the reach of regulators and centralized financial institutions. Coded smart contracts – not written contracts or company-controlled servers – would allow users to trade and transact without intermediaries.
Over time, DeFi has grown into a behemoth undergirding the entire crypto economy. But as DeFi success stories like Maker and Uniswap have provided new paradigms for users to borrow, lend and swap digital assets, high-leverage experiments like Olympus and Terra – which promised high yields to users in exchange for their faith in untested investment models – have crashed and burned.
Over the past months, as tokens associated with projects like Terra have fallen to zero, DeFi as a whole has also suffered. That suffering accelerated this week. CoinDesk reported Tuesday that crypto markets saw over $1 billion in liquidations in just 24 hours between Monday and Tuesday.
As Shaurya Malwa, my colleague on CoinDesk’s Markets desk, explained, “Liquidation refers to when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader is unable to meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).”
A primary catalyst for this week’s liquidation chaos appears to have been massive sell-offs from Celsius – an investment product that allows users to easily deposit funds in exchange for market-leading yields. Behind the scenes, Celsius was able to offer high yearly returns up to around 20% by deploying user tokens into myriad DeFi protocols. Celsius would reward depositors with the profits it earned from these protocols, and it would shave off a percentage for itself.
Celsius was a crypto unicorn – raising $400 million in October from investors who believed it had the potential to revolutionize finance (and profit handsomely) by expanding consumer access to DeFi. It now faces criticism that its fund managers behaved like degens (crypto-speak for “degenerates”), swayed by the same eye-popping returns that pooled retailers into uncertain bets like the ill-fated Terra project.
Celsius was never fully transparent with how it deployed user funds behind the scenes, and a wave of sell-offs from the platform this week suggests it, as a result of some risky DeFi investments, is now verging on insolvency.
One of the primary destinations for Celsius’ funds was Anchor – the lending platform that provided users up to 20% per year for deposits of Terra’s dollar-pegged UST stablecoin. The Block reported in May that Celsius deposited around $500 million into Anchor, which it quickly withdrew as Terra started to wobble. While its money was parked in Anchor, Celsius took some of the 20% yield for itself, and then built the rest of the yield into the interest it handed back to depositors.
Though Celsius reportedly withdrew from Anchor before UST imploded, the firm’s one-time involvement with the ill-fated Terra project – combined with a broader cooling (and now, crashing) of DeFi markets – has fueled suspicion that Celsius’ DeFi investments may have declined in value so much that the platform no longer has enough money to pay back its depositors.
The insolvency narrative seemed especially likely on Sunday, when Celsius sent an email to users informing them that it would be pausing all swaps, transfers and withdrawals in an effort to ensure it would be able to honor its commitments moving forward.
Moreover, a wave of recent sell-offs from Celsius suggests some market players that loaned out money to the platforms are now asking for that money back – something one would expect to see during a bear market. It appears likely that, in order to pay off its lenders, Celsius has been forced to sell off some of its largest positions. One of those positions was in stETH.
According to blockchain data, Celsius has nearly $500 million of Lido staked ether (stETH) locked up as collateral in stablecoin loans. It’s possible they have more elsewhere in their treasury.
The attention on stETH this month stems from the fact that it is no longer trading around 1:1 for ETH. Traditionally, ETH and stETH have traded around parity because each stETH represents a direct claim on ETH that Lido, a decentralized protocol, has staked on the Beacon Chain on behalf of its users.
The catch is that while Lido will happily hand out 1 stETH in exchange for 1 ETH, it does not yet allow users to pull their ETH back out of the protocol. This comes down to a limitation with Ethereum itself: ETH staked on the Beacon Chain will be impossible to withdraw until an update following Ethereum’s “Merge” into a proof-of-stake network (today, Ethereum continues to operate using the more energy-intensive proof-of-work consensus mechanism pioneered by Bitcoin).
The main point of a “liquid staking” solution like Lido was to provide users a way to stake, secure the network and earn interest for doing so without losing the ability to use and trade staked assets. (It also allows users to participate in staking without the need to put up 32 ETH — which is what’s required if you are setting up a node by yourself.)
Read more: 'Staked Ether' Becomes Focus of Crypto Stress, From Celsius to Three Arrows
With so much stETH held by Celsius, there’s some fear that the troubled firm may be forced to sell off its stETH to stay afloat (if it hasn’t done so already). This would have the effect of depressing the overall stETH market.
Andrew Thurman of blockchain analytics firm Nansen (and a former CoinDesk colleague) told Decrypt this week that Celsius “sent thousands of stETH to FTX in recent days, presumably to sell, though we can't verify that because it's off-chain … They have likely been especially hard-hit by stETH losing its peg to ETH.”
Concerns that Celsius (and other firms) will be forced to dump more stETH, combined with sales from other stETH holders anxious to cash out during the bear market, may have helped to cause stETH to drop 7% below the price of ETH this week.
Although stETH and ETH should eventually be interchangeable, some holders appear desperate enough to exit their positions that they’ve been willing to trade stETH at a steep discount.
The uncoupling of stETH from ETH has provoked questions as to whether Lido is “the next Terra,” but this is not an apples-to-apples comparison.
First off, while Terra's UST stablecoin was “pegged” to the price of $1, stETH was never pegged to the price of ETH.
So long as stETH is not redeemable for ETH, there’s nothing guaranteeing the two should sell at the same price until they are interchangeable.
“The price of [Lido] staked ETH prices in some risk of not doing the Merge, some risk of [Ethereum not allowing] withdraws, and some opportunity cost of having your ether locked up for along time,” Ben Edgington, product lead at Ethereum development firm ConsenSys, told CoinDesk.
According to Edgington, unless you believe ether is going to zero or you think it will never successfully merge into a proof-of-stake network, you can rest easy knowing you can wait it out and eventually trade stETH back for ETH.
UST, on the other hand, was supposed to be pegged to exactly one dollar based on a complex dance with LUNA, its sister token.
But because of the mechanics underpinning this relationship, a drop in UST’s price would cause LUNA’s supply to inflate and its price to decrease. And the same thing happened the other way around – when LUNA’s price decreased enough, UST ultimately struggled to maintain its $1 peg.
READ MORE: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
The drop in Terra wasn’t merely a case of market sentiment gone bad. It was accelerated by an underlying mechanism that forced UST and LUNA into a “death spiral” to zero under certain conditions.
The relationship between stETH and ETH does not have the sort of feedback loops that doomed Terra.
The people selling stETH at a discount to ETH either need to cash out now (like Celsius needing to pay off loans), or figure ETH’s price will be lower than it is today even after The Merge. Even if it trades at a discount to ETH currently, stETH is unlikely to crash (similar to Terra) unless ether itself crashes.
While all of this market talk may feel like a sideshow for an Ethereum protocol-focused newsletter, Edgington explains that the price of ether, which is down 67% year to date, becomes relevant in a proof-of-stake system.
READ MORE: What is Proof of Stake?
As Edgington puts it, “Proof-of-stake is fundamentally different from proof-of-work in terms of its security model. We can put a very clear cost on attacking the chain.”
He continued, “The dirty secret of proof-of-work is that it can be costless to attack the chain, because if you win a 51% attack, you can actually make a profit, assuming that nothing too bad happens to the coin price … smaller chains have come under attack and their coin price has been flat.”
In a proof-of-stake system, says Edgington, “an attack would cost a minimum of a third of all ether staked – so that would be like 4 million ETH today.” (Side note: This is around how much Lido controls, though it spreads its stake between different parties responsible for validating the network).
In a world where ether has a relatively high price, the cost of attack will also be high – hence why developers like Edgington argue it is more secure. Of course, this also works in the other direction. If the price of ether drops low enough, an attack will be cheaper.
The following is an overview of network activity on the Ethereum Beacon Chain over the past week. For more information about the metrics featured in this section, check out our 101 explainer on Eth 2.0 metrics.
Disclaimer: All profits made from CoinDesk’s Eth 2.0 staking venture will be donated to a charity of the company’s choosing once transfers are enabled on the network.
Aave v3 was deployed on the Ropsten testnet.
WHY IT MATTERS: Following the Ropsten test network successfully merging its proof-of-work execution layer with the Beacon Chain proof-of-stake consensus chain on June 8, developers and users are encouraged to start testing Aave version 3 on the Ropsten testnet. The recent deployment of Aave v3 on Ropsten is one example of many protocols gearing up to be ready for the Merge on the mainnet. The encouragement to test Aave highlights the importance of participants of the Ethereum ecosystem in spotting vulnerabilities and errors before the Merge. Read more here.
Coinbase to lay off roughly 1,100 employees.
WHY IT MATTERS: In its cost-cutting plan, Coinbase (COIN) is reducing its workforce by around 18%. Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong said, “We appear to be entering a recession after a 10+ year economic boom,” adding that the company grew too fast in the crypto bull market. Coinbase joins several crypto companies like BlockFi, Crypto.com and Gemini in announcing job cuts. Read more here.
PayPal is allowing customers to transfer their ether and other crypto off its platform.
WHY IT MATTERS: According to CEO Dan Schulman, the move to transfer cryptocurrency from PayPal’s (PYPL) platform to external wallets is the opening step of moving from a fiat-oriented world to a digital currency one. Crypto has been a non-starter when it comes to a payment method, but the stars are aligning in terms of stablecoins, regulation and digital identity innovation, Schulman added. Moreover, Schulman said the current crypto winter is a time to double down. Read more here.
$15M worth of Optimism tokens were sent to the wrong wallet address and stolen.
WHY IT MATTERS: On June 8, the layer 2 rollup network announced that $15 million of OP governance tokens were sent to the wrong blockchain address. Optimism intended to send the funds to a crypto market maker, Wintermute, but Wintermute provided the wrong wallet address. While Wintermute CEO Evgeny Gaevoy took responsibility for the error, the wallet that holds these governance tokens will still be able to vote on Optimism community governance. The community will decide how Optimism will handle the stolen funds. Read more here.
Goldman Sachs started trading a type of derivative tied to ether.
WHY IT MATTERS: The global investment banking firm executed its first Ethereum non-deliverable forward, a derivative that pays out based on the price of ether and offers institutional investors indirect exposure. Despite the overall market cap for crypto dropping below $1 trillion for the first time in roughly 18 months on Monday, Goldman’s (GS) move reveals lingering institutional appetite for cryptocurrencies. Read more here.
Valid Points incorporates information and data about CoinDesk’s own Ethereum validator in weekly analysis. All profits made from this staking venture will be donated to a charity of our choosing once transfers are enabled on the network. For a full overview of the project, check out our announcement post.
You can verify the activity of the CoinDesk Eth 2.0 validator in real time through our public validator key, which is:
0xad7fef3b2350d220de3ae360c70d7f488926b6117e5f785a8995487c46d323ddad0f574fdcc50eeefec34ed9d2039ecb.
Search for it on any Eth 2.0 block explorer site."
103,858,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/16/usdc-issuer-circle-to-introduce-euro-backed-stablecoin-in-us/,USDC Issuer Circle to Introduce Euro-Backed Stablecoin in US,The Euro Coin will be backed by euro-denominated reserves held by U.S. regulated financial institutions.,2022-06-16,"Circle Internet Financial, the issuer of the USD Coin (USDC) dollar-pegged stablecoin, is set to introduce a new token by the end of the month – this one backed by the single European currency.
The Euro Coin (EUROC) will be fully backed by euro-denominated reserves held in the custody of financial institutions that fall “within the U.S. regulatory perimeter,” the company announced Thursday. One such institution will be San Diego-based Silvergate Bank, the company said.
EUROC joins a short list of euro-backed stablecoins including EURt, issued by Tether, and EURS, from Malta-based Stasis. Tether is also the issuer of the largest dollar-pegged coin, USDT, which has a market cap of more than $70 billion compared with second-largest USDC’s $54 billion.
“Euro Coin is a regulated, euro-backed stablecoin issued under the same full-reserve model and built on the same pillars of trust, transparency, and security that have made USDC one of the world’s most trusted digital currencies,” the statement said.
Following the publication of this article, a representative for Circle told CoinDesk that EUROC reserves will be made up of ""cash and euro government debt only.""
Regulators and lawmakers in the European Union (EU) are in the process of setting up rules for stablecoin issuers looking to serve customers in the bloc’s 27 member states. The Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) legislation, set to be finalized by the end of June, includes stringent rules particularly for large stablecoin issuers.
It is unclear how a euro-backed stablecoin issued under U.S. standards might be perceived by EU leaders, and how Circle is anticipating the EU’s pending legislation. A representative for Circle told CoinDesk the company will not comment publicly on conversations, or the existence of conversations, with U.S., EU, or other regulators.
“[Stablecoins] are addressed by MiCA because they could indeed raise concerns regarding the EU monetary policy, stability and sovereignty,” Eva Kaili, vice president of the European Parliament told CoinDesk during an interview last year.
Euro Coin will launch on the Ethereum blockchain on June 30 as an ERC-20 standard token. Support for additional blockchains is expected later in the year. According to the announcement, several ecosystems including Anchorage Digital, Binance.US, Bitstamp, FTX, Huobi Global, Ledger and MetaMask Institutional will support the stablecoin at launch.
According to Circle’s official website, Euro Coin is initially only accessible via Silvergate’s Euro SEN network, which requires potential users to have an active banking relationship with the bank. Once trading on exchanges kicks off, people and businesses will be able to trade for Euro Coin and withdraw EUROC from exchanges and put it in Ethereum-compatible wallets, the website said.
The website also says that starting in July, Grant Thornton LLP, a global network of independent accounting and consulting firms, will issue monthly attestations of Euro Coin reserves.
“There is clear market demand for a digital currency denominated in euros, the world’s second most traded currency after the U.S. dollar,” Jeremy Allaire, Circle founder and CEO, said in a press statement.
The euro has weakened against the dollar this year, with some experts projecting it will reach parity by the end of the month.
UPDATE (June 16, 13:16 UTC): Adds comment from Circle representative in seventh paragraph.
UPDATE (June 16, 14:10 UTC): Adds detail on EUROC reserves provided after publication."
104,1166,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/17/first-mover-asia-when-crypto-rebuilds-after-this-cold-winter-firms-like-three-arrows-capital-wont-have-a-place-bitcoin-sinks-toward-20k/,"First Mover Asia: When Crypto Rebuilds After This Cold Winter, Firms Like Three Arrows Capital Won't Have a Place; Bitcoin Sinks Toward $20K","The crypto hedge fund, which has been one of the industry’s most prolific investors in new protocols and is also a large borrower, is facing $400 million in liquidations on its positions; ether drops 13%.",2022-06-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Cryptos sink again.
Insights: After the eventual crypto thaw, firms like Three Arrows Capital won't find a place.
Technician's take: In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is republishing an essay for CoinDesk by Tusk Venture Partners co-founder Bradley Tusk.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,311 -10.2%
Ether (ETH): $1,059 -15%
Bitcoin and Other Cryptos Tumble
So much for the rebound.
Cryptos, which had risen Wednesday after U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell struck a determined inflationary tone, returned their gains Thursday amid fresh investor worries about rising prices, global tumult and a looming recession.
Bitcoin was recently trading just above $20,300, down more than 10% over the previous 24 hours and again raising questions about whether it might soon break support at $20,000 and spur a fresh round of liquidations. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap after bitcoin, was testing the $1,050 waters where it last waded over a year ago, and was off over 15%. Other altcoins assumed various shades of red, with DOT and UNI recently down over 16% and 13%, respectively.
""Investors and traders should be prepared that [Wednesday’s] rebound could choke out rather quickly,"" FxPro senior analyst Alex Kuptsikevich wrote early Thursday. He said investors need to be ready because ""cryptocurrencies and risky assets in financial markets are unlikely to reliably bounce back before there are signals the economy has stopped slowing.""
Cryptocurrency prices, which have correlated with stocks in recent months, once again tracked major equity indexes. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, despite its bevy of blue chip stocks, plummeted below 30,000 for the first time in 18 months after closing down 2.4% for the day. The S&P 500, which entered bear market territory earlier in the week (meaning it has fallen at least 20% from its previous high), was off 3.3% while the tech-heavy Nasdaq plunged a whopping 4.1%.
Gold, a traditional risk-off asset, rose 1.2%.
For the cryptocurrency industry, the day was another forgettable one. Celsius watchers continued monitoring the latest fallout from the lending platform's decision to halt withdrawals and other news. CoinDesk reported that Texas, Alabama and other states are investigating Celsius' decision in light of investor needs. “I am very concerned that clients – including many retail investors – may need to immediately access their assets yet are unable to withdraw from their accounts,” Rotunda told Reuters. “The inability to access their investment may result in significant financial consequences.”
Meanwhile, Crypto lender BlockFi confirmed Thursday it recently liquidated a “large client” amid reports that troubled crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital failed to meet margin calls. The crypto hedge fund (see Insights below) has historically been among the industry’s most prolific investors in new protocols and is also a large borrower. And exchange giant Coinbase's (COIN) stock tumbled more than 7% to a new closing low just two days after announcing the layoff of about 1,100 employees. Other crypto exchanges, including the Winklevoss twins-led Gemini and Latin America-based Bitso and Buenbit, have also recently cut jobs.
Entrepreneur and ""Shark Tank"" host Kevin O'Leary told CoinDesk TV that Celsius' strategy was proving wrong. ""It looks like when it came time for a liquidity event, they weren't able to provide liquidity,"" he said. ""The concept of gating, shutting down is completely against the concept of decentralized finance. If I had an account there, I'd be a pretty pissed off cowboy.""
O'Leary sees bitcoin continuing to drop, perhaps 20%, yet he struck an optimistic note about crypto's future, noting among other developments WonderFi Technologies becoming the first crypto exchange to list on a major institutional stock exchange in Canada, the Toronto Stock Exchange, and similar initiatives in other countries. He was also encouraged by the introduction of three, bi-partisan, crypto bills in recent months in the U.S. and called crypto's recent problems and price drop ""the beginning of a bottoming out process.""
""It's a birthing thing,"" he said. ""It's the beginning of a nascent industry. The bad ideas need to be weeded out. You need to strip the Band-Aid off the wound. This is all good.""
S&P 500: 3,666 -3.3%
DJIA: 29,992 -2.4%
Nasdaq: 10,646 -4.4%
Gold: $1,857 +1.2%
After the Crypto Thaw, Firms Like Three Arrows Capital Will Struggle to Find a Place
In market downturns, cash will always be king. That was true for firms battling liquidations at the height of the 2008 financial crisis, and firms caught in the crossfire of this summer’s crypto meltdown.
Singapore-based Three Arrows Capital is now at the center of everyone’s attention. The crypto hedge fund has historically been one of the industry’s most prolific investors in new protocols and is also a large borrower. But now it’s in trouble: Facing $400 million in liquidations on its positions, it’s now ghosting its counterparties and liquidity providers. Messari’s fund profiler says the firm is down approximately 58% on the year, which has no doubt compounded its problems. On-chain data suggests the fund is trying to pay down debt by liquidating staked ether.
The question is, how much cash does Three Arrows Capital have? What’s the value of its assets under management?
Both those questions are hard to answer. The best clue to Three Arrows’ cash position comes from its registration with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. There, MAS says that it’s registered to manage assets under S$250 million (US$179.9 million). A December 2020 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission shows that Three Arrows’ position in the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust – worth $1.2 billion at the time – was split between its Singapore and British Virgin Islands entity.
(New York-based Grayscale is owned by Digital Currency Group, the parent company of CoinDesk.)
But again, this doesn’t demonstrate how much cash Three Arrows has. Using leveraged bitcoin has always been an option to buy-in to GBTC and for the longest time it was possible to premium harvest GBTC and churn it into a source of yield.
The fund has always been coy with its assets under management (AUM), never disclosing it in public and never denying estimated numbers published by research houses.
On-chain analytics house Nansen at one time put that number at $10 billion, but it would be difficult to get an exact number without being able to identify all of Three Arrows’ wallets. Nansen has identified many, but not all, making it impossible to determine this number precisely – or figure out how much leverage is being used.
What we do know about the black box of Three Arrows is that virtually every lending platform from Celsius to Aave has exposure. After all, that’s how they were able to generate the double-digit yield on their deposits. An eventual haircut from Three Arrows will be tough, especially as it comes during a general market drawdown.
Of course, if Three Arrows had a cash position that was more reflective of its crypto AUM, there would be less of an issue overall (let’s not count stablecoins in this as many are fighting hard to maintain their peg).
When crypto rebuilds after this deep correction there will certainly be less tolerance for these black boxes. The entire industry is based on transparency; it’s the defining attribute of the blockchain. Future hedge funds will have no problem putting everything on-chain for the world to see, making surprise liquidations a thing of the past – in theory.
(Editor's Note: In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is republishing a column by Tusk Venture Partners co-founder Bradley Tusk and head of legal at Dibbs, Thomas Mack)
The cliche is that the only things unavoidable in life are death and taxes. We can probably add new technology to the list, too. Artificial intelligence (AI), the metaverse, autonomous vehicles, flying cars – they’re all coming.
Lawmakers, if they want to be on top of a paradigm shift, should approach tech regulation in a way that is thoughtful, perceptive and comprehensive. But reaching consensus in our statehouses is challenging and finding any sort of common ground in Washington, D.C., is virtually impossible.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Making matters worse, a comprehensive approach to tech policy typically occurs only after some crisis forces legislators’ hands and the media is all over them, only increasing the risk that the law is hasty or ill-conceived.
While new regulatory frameworks will be needed in some areas of Web3 – the version of the internet driven by blockchain – there are other areas where innovators and investors can move the ball forward on the basis of existing laws and regulations, all the while simplifying the task for policymakers.
So let’s talk about technological neutrality.
By “technological neutrality” in the context of Web3 and tech innovation, we mean this: If new technology enables activities that are mostly the same as existing activities, let’s start with an assumption that the law treats the two activities similarly.
Said differently, wherever possible, the law should be neutral to the tech and any variations in legal treatment should come from (and be tailored to) material variations in the business or risks associated with the technology.
U.S. President Joseph Biden’s recent executive order on crypto, while leaving a whole lot unsettled, gives an implicit nod to this approach when declaring, “same business, same risks, same rules.” The crypto community will likely hate the approach the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) takes, but at least it’s now in a context we can all understand.
See also: As Federal Agencies Organize, US States Continue to Lead in Digital Asset Regulation | Opinion
In Web3 and crypto, regulators and innovators alike have at times gotten this backward. For instance, in the midst of the initial coin offering (ICO) boom; an SEC chair once said every ICO token he had seen was a security. That suggested, although digital tokens on distributed ledgers are infinitely variable and could represent anything from book club points to stock in a corporation, legal risks in Web3 stem from the technology rather than what lawyers call a substantive activity.
Under this paradigm, tokens on distributed ledgers were/are “high risk.” However, that hardly makes sense. This type of thinking is no doubt part of the U.S.’s inability to effectively regulate crypto currently and – if we don’t learn from it – Web3 in the future.
Seeking a unified regulatory scheme to oversee “distributed ledgers” – a general purpose technology with highly variable uses – is like seeking a unified regulatory scheme for uses for spreadsheets.
Appropriate oversight
Rather than starting with the technology as the bucketing function, let’s start with how people actually use the technology (their substantive activities), and the presumption that blockchain tech is irrelevant.
What is the business? What rights are being created between parties? How are those rights communicated from seller to buyer? What risks are associated with the business?
If we start with these questions, we usually find that there is relevant precedent in the existing laws, regulations or case law. And more importantly, if innovators, investors and regulators can use this as a shared starting point, we could take a couple of significant steps.
First, tech innovators and investors should have a common framework to assess risk associated with leading edge businesses. A vague sense that Web3 businesses are “risky” can be replaced by targeted questions and answers. What existing businesses does this most resemble? How are those businesses regulated? How is this business different from those businesses? Which of those differences are legally significant, and what are you doing to address risks stemming from that? What here actually impacts regular people and how?
Second, the task for policymakers can be simplified. With a technology as broad as Web3 and crypto, asking a regulator for clarity on Web3 and crypto is understandably daunting. The internet is a broad technology, and regulation would, of course, change depending on whether you’re discussing ecommerce or social networking, consumer protection or data privacy, etc.
If our starting point of technological neutrality can get us good answers on most issues associated with a particular Web3 activity, we can then rely on policymakers for a smaller subset of truly novel issues.
See also: Dragonfly's Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Winter | The Node
There will inevitably be areas where comprehensive rulemaking and legislation are needed – and industry should not be shy about advocating for that. But there will also be vast swaths of Web3 and crypto that are simply new ways to do the same old things. Not everything is revolutionary. And where that’s the case, let’s lean in on what clarity does exist under the law.
In other words if the government’s failure to properly understand and regulate Web2 has taught us anything, it’s that we need to make this a lot easier for them. Even if we do, they still may drop the ball. Or their politics may cause them to favor entrenched interests regardless of the impact of any particular Web3 business.
Protecting consumers, protecting businesses from fraud is what matters. Not passing value judgements on the merits of one technology over another.
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(3 a.m. UTC): Bank of Japan interest rate decision and monetary policy statement
4 p.m. HKT/SGT(8 a.m. UTC): Speech by Huw Pill, Bank of England chief economist and executive director for monetary analysis and research.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Kevin O’Leary on Crypto Market Bottom and Future of NFTs, Decentraland Exec on Metaverse Outlook
""Shark Tank's"" Kevin O'Leary, aka ""Mr. Wonderful,"" joined ""First Mover"" to discuss his crypto market outlook and why he thinks a ""panic event"" is needed before crypto bottoms. Crypto lending protocol Euler XYZ raised $32 million from Haun Ventures. Plus, Sam Hamilton of Decentraland Foundation discussed the outlook for the metaverse amid recent market volatility.
How Crypto Lender Celsius Overheated: Celsius rapidly became more brazen in its attempts to generate yields, using decentralized lending protocols and aggregators to juggle around client funds for the best return.
DeFi Protocol Inverse Finance Exploited for $1.2M: Attackers used a flash loan attack to drain the open-source protocol outfit of bitcoin and tether.
BlockFi Liquidated Three Arrows Capital: Report: CEO Zac Prince tweeted that the crypto lender “exercised our best business judgment.”
Texas, Other States Open Investigation Into Celsius Network Following Account Freeze: The Texas State Securities Board (TSSB) has had the lending platform in its crosshairs for nearly a year.
Russia's Gazpromneft and BitRiver Partner to Develop Crypto Mining Operations: The oil-producing subsidiary of state-owned natural gas giant Gazprom will provide energy to data centers set up by BitRiver.
Why We Need Crypto Payments to Work: In a word: competition. This post is part of CoinDesk's Payments Week.
Today's crypto explainer: 15 Ways to Stay Sane While Trading Crypto
Other voices: El Salvador: The country where you can buy anything with Bitcoin (BBC)
""I’ve been seeing a lot of speculation about BlockFi’s risk management practices that I want to address. While our policy is to not comment on specific counterparties, we are committed to providing as much transparency as possible, and it’s important to know the following:"" (BlockFi CEO Zac Prince) ... ""Spot [exchange-traded products] have launched in other countries without incident and with great investor interest. In Canada, for example, the first spot bitcoin ETP reached $1 billion Canadian dollars in assets under management a month after launch in 2020.[17] Spot crypto ETPs are also popular in Europe, where there are more than 70 crypto ETPs with an estimated total of $7 billion in assets.[18] ETPs in these other jurisdictions have functioned, even in volatile markets. Why is the SEC a holdout? At what point, if any, does the increasing maturity of the bitcoin spot markets and the success of similar products elsewhere tip the scale in favor of approval? Of course, the facts and circumstances of each application matter, but will I ever stop hearing that well-worn question: “When a spot bitcoin ETP?” (SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce in a June 14 speech) ... ""[I]nterview today, asked if BTC can scale for payments for transparency, my answer: 1) BTC can absolutely be payment asset, on lightning, L2, or wrapped 2) BTC chain not intended to scale to millions of TPS, so won't be global payments directly 3) bullish on blockchain payments."" (FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried/Twitter)"
105,863,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/20/first-mover-asia-a-chinese-alternative-to-dollar-based-stablecoins-widening-the-use-of-the-cnh-presents-challenges-btc-remains-above-20k/,First Mover Asia: A Chinese Alternative to Dollar-Based Stablecoins? Widening the Use of the CNH Presents Challenges; BTC Remains Above $20K,The token is a version of China’s currency designed for offshore use; other cryptos are mixed in light trading.,2022-06-20,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $20,000; other cryptos are mixed.
Insights: China's CNH token looks promising as an alternative to dollar-based stablecoins, but the challenges to expanding its use are formidable.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,415 +0.4%
Ether (ETH): $1,104 -2.2%
Bitcoin Holds Above $20K; Other Cryptos Are Mixed
A couple of Monday midday dips notwithstanding, bitcoin clung stubbornly to the perch above $20,000 it reassumed during the weekend.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,400, roughly flat over the past 24 hours. Bitcoin had surged on Sunday after a pause in the ongoing flood of bad economic, geopolitical and industry news that has plagued all digital assets, although markets remain unsettled.
""Bitcoin is still being whipped by winds of worry as the investors flee the crypto world in their race away from risky assets,"" wrote Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst for financial services firm Hargreaves Lansdown.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was down about 2%, changing hands just above the $1,100 position it reclaimed late Sunday. Other major altcoins were mixed with FTT up over 9% at one point, but XLM and XRP slightly down. DOGE rose earlier in the day after Tesla founder Elon Musk tweeted that he would ""Keep supporting Dogecoin,"" but was in the red by the afternoon.
Equity markets were closed and crypto trading was light as the U.S. celebrated the Juneteenth holiday. Major stock indexes elsewhere were mixed with Japan's Nikkei down a few fractions of a percentage point, but Hong Kong's Hang Seng up slightly after China left its one- and five-year lending rates intact. Europe's Stoxx 600 rose .9%, despite a report that German producer prices rose 33% last month.
Investors remain worried about inflation, geopolitical turmoil and the prospect of a global recession. Brent crude oil, a measure of energy markets whose price has risen sharply since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, is trading at $114 per barrel, up over 46% since the start of the year.
Cryptos received a sliver of good news when the CEO of Hong Kong-based cryptocurrency exchange Hoo.com tweeted early Monday that his company will open withdrawals for some tokens after announcing on Sunday in a blog post that it would be delaying withdrawals for 24 to 72 hours. Still the mood about crypto was downbeat.
""The HODLer mentality is really being put to the test and those that haven't bailed yet may be as tempted as they've ever been,"" Craig Erlam, senior market analyst for foreign exchange broker Oanda, wrote in an email.
Hargreaves Lansdown's Streeter noted that although cryptos have suffered from ""extreme volatility in the past, the indications are that this decline may not be reversed any time soon and that a crypto winter could be settling in.""
(Friday, June 17 close)
S&P 500: 3,674 +0.2%
DJIA: 29,888 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 10,798 +1.4%
Gold: $1,838 0% (Monday, June 20)
The Challenges of Expanding the Use of the CNH Currency Are Formidable
The best thing for U.S. dollar dominance has been the emergence of crypto, specifically stablecoins. The $156 billion stablecoin sector is almost entirely dollar-denominated. As stablecoins become an instrument of international trade, all this has done is reinforce dollar hegemony over a new part of the global economy.
Beijing is perpetually annoyed by the dollar dominance of the global economy as this means U.S rules reign supreme. A recent episode with Huawei, exports to Iran and a dollar-denominated loan come to mind.
But can a solution be found in a stablecoin based on the CNH, a version of China’s currency designed exclusively for offshore use? While theoretically intriguing, widening the use of CNH would be difficult.
Capital controls and stablecoins
Given China’s country’s capital controls, where only $50,000 in foreign currency can be bought per entity, there’s demand for tether (USDT) and USDC from anyone that needs to send a significant amount of capital outside the country.
Despite the difficulty capital controls create for international business in China, it’s still a pillar of the People’s Bank of China’s (PBoC) fiscal policy because of the stability it creates for the yuan. A currency that’s not freely convertible is more stable because it's not exposed to the same market forces as freely convertible currencies like the U.S. dollar, euro, Canadian dollar or Japanese yen.
But this means that despite China’s status as the world’s second-largest economy, and arguably the most important, the yuan’s global share isn’t proportional to this status. Given that it can’t be used offshore, the yuan only accounts for around 2% of global payments.
At the same time, Beijing wanted a way to access foreign capital while maintaining the capital controls on the yuan. So in 2010, it launched the CNH, an ""offshore"" version of the Chinese yuan initially offered in Hong Kong but later in Singapore and Luxembourg, to spearhead the ""Dim Sum"" bond market – yuan-denominated bonds issued by domestic Chinese firms that are designed to exist outside China’s capital controls to attract international capital.
Remember that the CNH isn’t a real currency; there's not really a use for it outside buying and trading ""dim sum"" bonds.
Making a stablecoin from this currency, as CNH coin proposes, is going to be difficult. The entire market cap of the dim sum bond market, the primary use case for CNH, has a market cap of just over $80 billion which is around the same size as USDT at its peak.
In the end, there might not be enough CNH in issuance to create a stablecoin that’s a serious challenger. This isn’t a problem unique to the CNH, as attempts to create a stablecoin from the Singapore dollar have also run into the wall of supply.
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
Point Zero Forum in Switzerland
8 a.m. HKT/SGT(12 a.m. UTC): Speech by Philip Lowe, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""Community Crypto"" on CoinDesk TV:
Making Web3 Accessible to All in Texas and Beyond
Web3 Texas Founder Nic J. joined ""Community Crypto"" host Isaiah Jackson to discuss his mission to educate and help grow the Web3 community through education.
Hong Kong’s Hoo.com Expects to Re-Open Some Token Withdrawals Today; Finblox Takes Steps to Address Liquidity: Several Hong Kong-based crypto platforms have made changes to their policies amid the market upheaval and liquidity crunches.
Ukraine Sells Donated CryptoPunk NFT for $100K to Support War Effort: The non-fungible token was given to the country in March near the start of its crypto fundraising campaign.
Hard Times in Crypto Lead to Price and Macro Risk: Just the first in a series of risks we’re thinking about during these crypto down days.
FUD or Facts? Terra, Celsius Show Value of Asking Questions: Kicking the tires on crypto projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow.
Solana DeFi Platform Votes to Control Whale Account in Bid to Avoid Liquidation 'Chaos': Solend users voted to ""grant emergency power to Solend Labs to temporarily take over the whale's account.""
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Ethereum?
Other voices: The Coin That Could Wreck Crypto
""1/ Some things that could slow market contagion and quicken recovery: – clarity from US regulators – more robust US crypto futures and options markets – US spot crypto ETFs"" (FTX.US President Brett Harrison/Twitter) ... ""I will keep supporting Dogecoin"" (Tesla founder Elon Musk/Twitter) ... ""Another week of whipsaw stock trading has many investors wondering how much farther markets will fall. If history is any guide, the selloff might still be in its early stages. ""(The Wall Street Journal)"
106,1114,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/22/first-mover-asia-defis-resilience-during-market-slowdown-bitcoin-slumps-near-20k/,First Mover Asia: DeFi’s Resilience During the Market Slowdown; Bitcoin Slumps Near $20K,"DeFi apps have avoided any massive on-chain liquidations, surprises or smart contract failures, even as crypto markets have shed value.",2022-06-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin loses its bounce to drop below $20,000 before regaining ground; other major cryptos decline.
Insights: DeFi keeps its head up in the current crypto whirlwind.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,079 -2.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,057 -5.6%
Bitcoin Loses Its Bounce
So much for good things.
Bitcoin ended a three-day run of price increases on Wednesday, sinking below the $20,000 threshold it surpassed two days earlier before regaining this perch later in the afternoon.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,100, down more than 2% over the past 24 hours. The decline came just two days after bitcoin cracked $21,000 as investors swooped in following a weekend dip, and amid a brief lull in the crypto calamities that have afflicted the industry in recent weeks.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently changing hands at approximately $1,050, down over 5% in the past 24 hours. Other major cryptos were well into the red with the token of troubled crypto lending platform Celsius (CEL) off by as much as over 20% and WAVES down 13%.
Investors once again shied away from riskier assets while digesting the latest inflation remarks by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, who testified to the Senate Banking Committee that the U.S. might not avert a recession as the Fed continues its current monetary hawkishness. In separate commentaries, the CEO of Deutsche Bank and analysts from Citigroup predicted a 50% likelihood of recession. Fed critics have maintained that the bank waited too long to boost interest rates, forcing it to adopt the harsh measures that seem likely to spur economic contraction.
“It would have been better if the Fed took ‘transient’ inflation seriously earlier this year instead of downplaying it,"" Mark Lurie, CEO of crypto software provider Shipyard Software, wrote to CoinDesk in a text. ""But at this point, the Fed is doing the right thing by raising interest rates – inflation is public enemy #1.""
""The downside is that it’s too late now to do so painlessly, and Powell is likely again downplaying the risk of a recession. It’s probably already here. This bodes poorly for crypto short term. Investors who may have bought the BTC dip earlier in the week may be realizing there will not be a quick recovery, driving today’s slow drop back to $20K.""
Crypto news was more nuanced on Wednesday than during recent months, when the daily drumbeat of industry mishaps and mini crises weighed on prices. On the upside, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) granted in-principle digital token payment licenses to crypto exchange Crypto.com and two other companies. The licenses will enable the three firms to offer services in the country, which has upped its scrutiny of crypto assets in recent months.
Later in the day, Jon Cunliffe, a deputy governor at the Bank of England, struck an upbeat note in a speech at the Point Zero conference in Zurich, saying that crypto technology's ability to eliminate middlemen in financial trading shouldn't lead to the kind of risk shortfalls that caused the 2008 financial meltdown. Cunliffe expressed faith in crypto, saying the technology will outlive current volatility, just as the internet economy ultimately overcame the dot-com crash of 2001. His comments came little over a week after BOE governor Andrew Bailey reiterated his stance that cryptocurrencies have ""no intrinsic value.""
Elsewhere, Australian bitcoin miner Iris Energy (IRIS) increased its hashrate estimate to 4.3 exahash/second (EH/s) for the year.
Voyager Digital (VOYG) shares fell more than 60% after the crypto broker disclosed its exposure to beleaguered hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC) and said it may issue a ""notice of default"" to the crypto fund if it fails to make a loan repayment. Voyager's exposure to 3AC consists of 15,250 bitcoins ($370 million) and $350 million USDC, the company said in a statement Wednesday.
Shares of crypto exchange Coinbase, which have received a monthslong battering during the crypto crash, fell nearly 10% to close just under $52, near their all-time low.
Yet Lurie of Shipyard Software said optimistically that the recent crypto downturn was a sign of crypto's maturation.
""The more sensitive it is to macro conditions, the more proof there is that it’s taken seriously as an asset class part of a professionally balanced portfolio,"" he said. ""That’s a positive sign long term.”
S&P 500: 3,759 -0.1%
DJIA: 30,483 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 11,053 -0.1%
Gold: $1,838 +0.3%
DeFi Keeps Its Head Up in the Current Crypto Whirlwind
The decentralized finance (DeFi) sector has held up well amid troubles at centralized crypto companies this month. There were hardly any massive on-chain liquidations, surprises or smart contract failures across popular DeFi apps, including Aave, Compound, Maker and others, even as crypto markets shed value.
“Established DeFi lending protocols like Aave, Compound and Maker have not had any downtime or withdrawal limitations due to excessive risk-taking of borrowers,” Alex Svanevik, founder of crypto data firm Nansen, shared in Twitter messages with CoinDesk.
“The transparency and real-time monitoring of on-chain transactions enable everyone to see liquidations and value at risk at those levels,” Svanevik added.
Aave, Compound see massive transactions
Svanevik highlighted that over $6 billion was repaid on Aave and Compound, both lending and borrowing platforms, which equated to a 64% reduction in their debt outstanding.
“That’s almost twice as much reduction in TVL (total value locked) compared to last year's May crash (-36%), and we have seen some very large investors repay massive positions, most notably a single wallet repaying 140K ETH on Aave after some initial on-chain liquidations last week,” he said.
Such moves didn't cause any unforeseen contagion damage in the crypto ecosystem, a showcase of the resilience of DeFi applications that rely on smart contracts to conduct financial transactions instead of centralized third parties.
Meanwhile, Svanevik said the centralized manner of operations in some crypto businesses caused the downturns of the past few weeks: “What we are seeing is that the shadow credit system across centralized lenders have enabled excessive leverage and risk into the system with little to no visibility to users until forced selling started and withdrawal stops hit last week, reminiscent of Archegos margin calls last year or Robinhood’s 2020 outage.”
Svanevik noted that the percent of holdings in stablecoins for wallets labeled as smart money by Nansen spiked to all-time highs last week – suggesting a sign of “aggressive de-risking” as well as repayment of on-chain loans.
“We are already seeing signs of this ratio coming down again, indicating smart money is deploying again,” Svanevik concluded.
The DeFi sector did, however, see some governance drama in the past week at Solana-based lending protocol Solend, as reported, with the potential issue subverted on Tuesday.
Market capitalization fell under $1 trillion earlier this month as recession and inflation fears led to a slowdown in broader markets. Bitcoin saw a nearly 12-week decline that pushed prices to as low as below $18,000 last week – marking the first time the asset fell below the highs of the previous cycle.
A decline in crypto prices in early May caused contagion risks within the crypto ecosystem, starting with the implosion of Terra’s UST stablecoin in mid-May. The dollar-pegged coin dropped to a few cents while the protocol’s flagship LUNA tokens plunged nearly 100%.
That caused the value locked on Terra applications to tumble by $28 billion and lead to Three Arrows Capital seeing hundreds of millions of dollars in losses.
In June, crypto lender Celsius Network saw troubles as it disabled user withdrawals, citing “extreme market conditions.” That led to rumors of insolvency among crypto circles. Its peers were seemingly affected as well: Lender BlockFi said this week it had secured a $250 million credit facility from crypto exchange FTX to bolster its “balance sheet and platform strength.”
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
Point Zero Forum in Switzerland
4 p.m. HKT/SGT(8 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank Economic bulletin
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Slips Ahead of Powell Testimony, Pharrell Joins Doodles NFTs as it Announces First Fundraise
Julian Holguin, CEO of popular NFT project Doodles, revealed the company's partnership with musician Pharrell Williams, new project Doodles 2 and the project's first funding round led by Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian. Plus, Prime Trust Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Vicuna provided crypto markets analysis, and e-sports and gaming brand FaZe Clan Chief Strategy Officer Kai Henry weighed in on the state of the metaverse and Web3.
Coinbase Shares Slump With Crypto Prices as Binance.US Starts Zero-Fee BTC Trading: Cryptocurrency prices resumed their slump, hurting Coinbase and related equities.
Tech Giants Create Metaverse Standards Forum for Software and Terminology Standards: Meta Platforms, Microsoft, Nvidia, Unity, Sony and 30 other companies are coming together to build the infrastructure for an interoperable metaverse.
Crypto Exchange dYdX to Start a Standalone Blockchain: The layer 1 blockchain will be built in the Cosmos ecosystem.
Qatar at 'Foundation Stage' of CBDC Exploration, Central Bank Governor Says: The Gulf state central banker praised the ""innovation"" of crypto assets.
Is Sam Bankman-Fried a Modern-Day Robber Baron?: In bailing out the crypto industry, the digital asset titan is acting like at least one Gilded Age financier.
Other voices: Crypto’s frozen mystery: The fate of billions in Celsius deposits (Washington Post)
""Later this year, we’ll begin sunsetting Coinbase Pro to migrate all advanced trading into one unified Coinbase account, bringing customers access to popular features like staking, Borrow, dapp wallet, and Coinbase Card from a single platform balance."" (Coinbase blog post) ... ""Over the last few years, we have seen other governments make real progress in establishing a central bank digital currency. The longer the United States government waits to embrace this innovation, the further we fall behind both foreign governments and the private sector. It is time for Congress to consider and move forward with legislation that would authorize a U.S. CBDC. I hope that this white paper will contribute meaningfully to that dialogue."" (U.S. Rep. Jim Himes proposal for a USDC) ... ""Central-bank officials have made rising yields an explicit policy goal. Higher yields translate to higher borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, which should eventually lead to less borrowing, reduced spending and a slower rise in consumer prices."" (The Wall Street Journal) ..."
107,1115,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/22/prime-trust-raises-107m-with-eyes-on-crypto-ira-tokenized-asset-products/,"Prime Trust Raises $107M With Eyes on Crypto IRA, Tokenized Asset Products","The Las Vegas company is going into build mode, bear market be damned.",2022-06-22,"Crypto infrastructure company Prime Trust said Wednesday it raised $107 million in Series B funding as it looks to broaden its product categories, including crypto retirement products and asset tokenization.
The Las Vegas-based company has already forged a handful of deals that bring crypto to retirement investors, most notably via Swan Bitcoin’s bitcoin individual retirement account (IRA). With more competitors including Fidelity making access to crypto retirement investing easier, Prime Trust’s effort is slated to accelerate with its bear market cash in hand.
Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Vicuna declined to comment on the company’s valuation. He said the round has been in the works since late last year; some late-stage stragglers might even write checks in the next month or so. Prime Trust last raised $65 million in its July 2021 Series A.
The Series B comes as markets lurch into what may likely be a bona fide recession, crypto’s first. Sluggish user growth has forced other companies to pare back their spending or even slash headcount, making Prime Trust’s plan – grow, invest, hire – a little jarring.
Vicuna offered the adage of bear markets being high time to build. When asked if Prime Trust was stocking an acquisition war chest a la FTX, he demurred: “As a CFO, you can never say no to” the right opportunity.
“This is really a strategic investment to build out the critical infrastructure that helps us scale for our clients,” he said.
Read more: Prime Trust Raises $64M to Scale Fintech Infrastructure Biz
Prime Trust works behind the scenes to help customer-facing companies, such as crypto exchanges and non-fungible token (NFT) marketplaces, move and store their assets.
What constitutes a moveable, storable crypto asset is growing, according to Vicuna. He said the company is anticipating a surge in tokenized assets, like securities, real estate and NFTs, that can be represented and transferred across chains.
“The bulge-bracket banks really see this as the future, and so we’re building out” tokenized asset capabilities, Vicuna said. ”Really dynamic custodians can look at assets and say, ‘Yeah, we can safeguard that.’”
Prime Trust has been thinking about tokenized securities since at least its 2018 acquisition of the equity crowdfunding platform FundAmerca. Prime Trust has pitched it as an on-ramp and distribution vehicle for cash-hungry companies looking to access better liquidity for the trading of their private shares. It’s facilitated $3 billion in capital raises, according to the website.
“It's a smaller part of the business that we think will be more meaningful,” Vicuna said."
108,859,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/23/market-wrap-crypto-assets-stabilize-as-btc-retakes-20k/,Market Wrap: Crypto Assets Stabilize as BTC Retakes $20K,"Bitcoin traded at $20,900 in the afternoon, while some altcoins surged on positive news and improved sentiment.",2022-06-23,"Crypto assets stabilized on Thursday and regained ground after Wednesday’s volatile trading saw bitcoin tumble below $20,000 and altcoins drop.
Bitcoin (BTC) climbed back to $20,900 by Thursday afternoon, recovering from its 24-hour low of $19,764, while ether (ETH), the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was up about 5.5% at above $1,100.
Stocks gained Thursday, with the S&P 500 up 1%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq rose 1.5%, a sign of improved sentiment toward riskier assets.
Some altcoins benefitted from the positive sentiment and surged during the day on positive news.
MATIC, the native token of Ethereum-scaling platform Polygon, jumped 19% in the last 24 hours after Polygon introduced improved privacy for decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) on its network. The Cosmos network’s token, ATOM, gained 12% after decentralized exchange dXdY announced it would build its own blockchain with Cosmos, ditching Ethereum.
The $20,000 price point for BTC remains pivotal for the crypto market as analysts debate whether the largest cryptocurrency will see further declines akin to 2013, when BTC fell by 85%, and to 2017, when it plunged 84%. If bitcoin experiences a similar fall this time around, the prices would fall close to $10,000.
Low prices for a sustained period of time might spell trouble for crypto exchanges, crypto data firm Kaiko warned in a research note Thursday.
“As prices remain low, volumes decrease, hedge funds unwind and fees compress, exchanges will be put to the test,” Kaiko analyst Riyad Carey wrote in the note.
“Those that have enough volume and spent responsibly through the bull market will likely be able to weather the storm, while those that played fast and loose with risky staking products and investments may go under if they aren’t acquired or bailed out by FTX or Alameda,” Carey added, referring to two companies led by billionaire entrepreneur Sam Bankman-Fried.
For example, futures crypto exchange CoinFLEX announced that it’s pausing withdrawals because of “extreme market conditions” and uncertainty around a certain counterparty.
Earlier this week, crypto exchange FTX supplied crypto lender BlockFi with $250 million in credit. Last week, Bankman-Fried’s trading outfit Alameda Research bailed out crypto broker Voyager Digital.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $20,892 +3.58%
●Ether (ETH): $1,124 +4.81%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,795.76 +0.95%
●Gold: $1,828 per troy ounce −0.32%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.07% −0.088
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said that the U.S. central bank plans to recommend to Congress how to advance a potential central bank digital currency (CBDC).
When asked about the Fed’s next steps regarding the rollout of a CBDC, Powell told U.S. lawmakers in a Thursday monetary-policy hearing that “it's something we really need to explore as a country” and that “it should not be a partisan thing.”
“It's a very important potential financial innovation that will affect all Americans,” he said. “Our plan is to work on both the policy side and the technological side in coming years and come to Congress with a recommendation at some point.”
The Fed issued a report on the question of a digital dollar earlier this year, and officials are still combing through the responses from the crypto industry, traditional financial firms and investors. Those answers are likely to inform the Fed's eventual recommendation.
Read the full story here.
Avalanche surges: Smart contracts platform Avalanche added support for bitcoin on its cross-chain bridge, allowing users to transfer bitcoin assets through its newly launched 'Core' wallet. The platform’s token, AVAX, rose 4.3% in the last 24 hours, outperforming bitcoin and ether. Read more here.
Voyager cuts daily withdrawal limit: Crypto broker Voyager Digital (VOYG) reduced its daily withdrawal limit to $10,000 from $25,000. The move comes after the firm disclosed its exposure to struggling hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and said it may issue a ""notice of default"" if the crypto fund fails to make a loan repayment. The broker’s token, VGX, dropped 3.6% in the last 24 hours. Read more here.
NHL signs NFT deal: The National Hockey League has signed a multiyear partnership agreement with non-fungible token (NFT) platform Sweet to start a digital collectibles marketplace. The partnership will allow hockey fans to collect and trade NFTs during the league’s 2022-2023 season. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast discusses the latest movements on the market and where we are in the crypto’s adoption cycle.
Solana Labs Is Building a Web3 Mobile Phone: The backers of the Solana blockchain said Thursday that the devices will cost around $1,000 and be available for delivery in early 2023.
Gold-Backed Stablecoin Can Help Russia Circumvent Sanctions, Government-Owned Bank Suggests: The U.S. wouldn't be able to touch a “crypto-golden” ruble, VEB bank researchers say.
Gucci Invests $25K in DAO of NFT Marketplace SuperRare to Start Digital Art Vault: The high-end luxury fashion house has purchased the tokens to launch a digital “Vault Art Space.”
Stablecoins Could Still Dominate Post-Terra, S&P Says: Not all stablecoins are alike, analysts note, but regulations may be needed to compel audits and investor fairness.
Crypto Trading Platform Uphold Exits Venezuela, Cites US Sanctions: Trading service in the country will be available until July 31, and accounts will be fully restricted as of Sept. 30.
Solar-Powered Bitcoin Miner Starts Operations Despite Difficult Market: Aspen Creek Digital will also host miners from Galaxy Digital at its new data center in western Colorado.
Singapore Will Crack Down on Bad Crypto Behavior: The Monetary Authority of Singapore will be ""brutal and unrelentingly hard,"" the central bank's chief fintech officer said.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
109,1113,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/23/solana-labs-is-building-a-web3-mobile-phone/,Solana Labs Is Building a Web3 Mobile Phone,"The backers of the Solana blockchain said the devices will cost around $1,000 and be available for delivery in early 2023.",2022-06-23,"The Solana network is getting its own mobile phone called “Saga,” an Android handset by the blockchain’s key stakeholder, Solana Labs.
The upcoming device – a modified OSOM handset with specialty crypto wallet functions and the “Solana Mobile Stack (SMS)” software development kit for Web3 programs – was announced Thursday at an event in New York. It will cost about $1,000 and be available for delivery in early 2023, Solana Labs CEO Anatoly Yakovenko said.
The phone marks Solana’s biggest bet yet on mobile-focused growth. It will feature a Web3 dapp (decentralized app) store, integrated “Solana Pay” to facilitate QR code-based on-chain payments, a mobile wallet adapter and a “seed vault” that will store private keys deep within the recesses of the phone.
“Everything is going mobile. In most countries, most of the access happens through mobile phones,” Sam Bankman-Fried, CEO of crypto exchange FTX and a key Solana backer, said at the event. “But crypto mobile is behind the times,” he said, noting how clunky accessing dapps on mobile devices is now.
“The best solution for this is having the actual wallet built into your phone,” Bankman-Fried said.
Solana Labs said it will work with other companies to power the ecosystem to build the phone, including Magic Eden, the top NFT (non-fungible token) marketplace, Phantom, the biggest wallet provider, and Orca, a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform. Executives from all three were on hand to discuss the upcoming mobile experience.
The executives contrasted the Solana phone app store with the marketplaces from Google and Apple, which take a cut of sales. “There will be no extractive fees,” Yakovenko said of the SMS-fueled store.
The Solana Foundation pledged $10 million toward spurring the development of mobile apps on its SMS.
“We live our lives on our mobile devices – except for Web3 because there hasn’t been a mobile-centric approach to private key management,” Yakovenko, a Solana co-founder, said in a press release. “The Solana Mobile Stack shows a new path forward on Solana that is open source, secure, optimized for Web3 and easy to use.”
It’s not the first Web3 smartphone gambit. Sirin Labs pursued plans in 2018 to ship a blockchain-native phone but faced layoffs and litigation as the product failed to gain traction.
When asked about the shortcomings of past attempts to bring crypto-friendly phones to market, Yakovenko, a former Qualcomm engineer, said the Solana phone was better positioned for success because there are more crypto developers in the space relative to 2018.
UPDATE (June 23, 18:53 UTC): Adds further comment from Anatoly Yakovenko."
110,36,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/27/ftx-token-dao-raises-7m-from-community-of-sam-bankman-fried-fans/,FTX Token DAO Raises $7M From Community of Sam Bankman-Fried Fans,The money is destined for a fund that will contribute to community-led projects across DeFi and crypto education.,2022-06-27,"A community dedicated to FTT, the native token of cryptocurrency exchange FTX, has raised $7 million (250,000 FTT), which will be converted into an ecosystem fund, according to a press release.
The fund will contribute to community-led projects across decentralized finance (DeFi) and crypto education.
The FTT DAO, a decentralized autonomous organization, is independent of FTX and states on its website that it believes in ""effective altruism,"" a phrase it attributes to the exchange's CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried.
""I'm aware of FTT DAO, and it's cool that the community is spontaneously coming together,"" Bankman-Fried said in the statement.
Bankman-Fried founded the FTX Foundation, a charitable organization, and has signed the Giving Pledge, a commitment taken by some of the world’s richest people to give away the majority of their wealth to philanthropy in either their lifetimes or their wills.
In the statement, the DAO said its members are ""Bankman-Fried fans/followers/friends. We share the same values as SBF (Sam Bankman-Fried) and support his mission to give back to society in order to make a positive impact on our world.""
The FTT token was issued in 2019 as a cryptocurrency that gave FTX users discounted fees, increased affiliate revenue and access to initial exchange offerings (IEOs).
FTT was recently trading at $27.64, down 2.4% over the past 24 hours."
111,866,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/28/first-mover-asia-chip-maker-nvidia-isnt-an-ether-proxy-bitcoin-holds-near-21k/,"First Mover Asia: Chip Maker Nvidia Isn’t an Ether Proxy, Bitcoin Holds Near $21K","Crypto mining aided Nvidia's bottom line, but it hasn't been a major cause of the stock's steep decline. Ether falls but hovers at around $1,200.",2022-06-28,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin falls but stays well above $20,000. Other major cryptos are in the red.
Insights: Crypto helped Nvidia's bottom line, but it hasn't been a major cause of the stock's steep decline.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,804 -1.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,195 -0.9%
Bitcoin Falls but Remains Near $21K; Other Cryptos Fall
Bitcoin fell on Monday but remained comfortably above the $20,000 threshold it crossed more than a week ago.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,800, down over 1% in the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $1,200, down less than a percentage point but at about the same level it has held for the past week, as investors continued their cautious approach to riskier assets. Trading was light.
""People are still using the next several months to determine where this is going, where this will bottom out, not just in crypto,"" Hany Rashwan, founder of 21Shares, a provider of crypto exchange-traded products, said on CoinDesk's ""First Mover"" program, noting crypto's correlation to equity markets that rebounded last week after months of almost nonstop declines.
Other major cryptos were also in the red with celsius (CEL), the token of Celsius Network, a troubled crypto lender, falling by as much as over 16% and UNI dropping nearly 11%. MATIC – a big winner last week after Polygon, the project the token represents, introduced a privacy product for decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) – returned a sizable portion of its gains, also tumbling about 11% at one point.
Large-scale stock indexes dropped slightly with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, which contains a heavy tech component, both down less than a percentage point. The S&P 500 closed Friday with its biggest single-day gain in two years amid the revision of a major report showing consumers slightly more upbeat about inflation in the future and small signs of an economic cooling that might enable the Federal Reserve to scale back its monetary hawkishness later in the year.
The U.S. Census Bureau's durable-goods report released Monday showed orders in May climbed higher than estimated and a rise in pending-home sales for the month, according to the National Association of Realtors. That countered the belief that inflation won't be as high as feared.
Despite recent debacles in the crypto sector, including the implosion of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and liquidity problems at crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, some analysts struck an optimistic note, particularly about decentralized finance (DeFi) projects that have weathered recent storms. In a market recap, Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at Arca Research, highlighted the 20%-30% spike in some cases last week for digital assets, ""led by the most beaten-down sectors, DeFi and NFTs/Gaming.""
""The cynic in me would dismiss these gains as a 'bear market rally' or merely short-covering, but the bull case is that DeFi protocols and applications did their job while their centralized exchange/lending platforms (CeFi) did not,"" Dorman wrote. ""That’s what led to the bounce in DeFi, which trickled down to the rest of the market.
""The carnage in the past six weeks has been very real, but every company that is currently facing solvency or going concern issues is a centralized company with a CEO, a board of directors and human decision-makers. Not a single line of code from DeFi or a smart contract is capable of making the costly decisions that these companies made.""
S&P 500: 3,900 -0.3%
DJIA: 31,438 -0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,524 -0.7%
Gold: $1,823 -0.4%
Despite GPU’s Ties to Mining, Nvidia Isn’t Much of an Ethereum Macro Proxy
A few years ago, it was nearly impossible to buy a graphics processing unit (GPU) add-in board (AIB) for your PC.
Gamers who wanted to upgrade their PC were out of luck. General purpose GPU compute (GPGPU), the ability to harness the chip’s ability to do massive amounts of parallel computation, is just as important for crypto mining as it is for creating photo-realistic graphics for games. So miners bought all they could, displacing gamers in the process.
Nvidia, which makes the GPU chip and its add-in board partners and which make the card itself, had quite the bull run with stocks of Gigabyte, MSI, and Zotac experiencing double-digit gains. Nvidia tried to downplay its exposure to crypto, and that ultimately led to a fine from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The data, however, doesn’t lie: The company sold more cards because of crypto mining.
But let’s be clear: Nvidia isn’t a crypto mining company or a proxy of one. Its stratospheric rise from a $5 stock at the beginning of 2015 to nearly $330 at the end of 2021 isn’t just because of mining, although mining did make a material impact on its income statement. Rather, the same technology, GPGPU Compute, was a Cambrian explosion-like event that unlocked a world of efficiency increases in data centers, allowing for massive advances in things like artificial intelligence and big data.
Data center has become the largest segment for Nvidia, surpassing gaming, last quarter. That has been in the works for a while, as the segment has been posting double-digit growth since 2018. That also means that Nvidia is exposed to slowing investments in data centers as a technology-led recession rips through Wall Street. Research firm Gartner put the growth in IT spending at 9.5% in 2021 and predicts that growth will slow to 4% in 2022.
So while crypto and mining added to Nvidia’s bottom line, it's not the reason why the company’s stock has led the board in declining tech stocks.
European Blockchain Conference
European Central Bank Forum on Central Banking
10 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 p.m. UTC): U.S. consumer confidence (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Exclusive: Morgan Creek Tries to Counter FTX’s BlockFi Bailout, Anatoly Yakovenko on Solana’s New Web3 Phone
CoinDesk deputy managing editor Tracy Wang joined ""First Mover"" to discuss her report on Morgan Creek's offer to counter FTX’s BlockFi bailout. Solana Labs co-founder and CEO Anatoly Yakovenko shared details of its groundbreaking Web3 smartphone 'Saga.' Plus, Hany Rashwan of 21Shares provided market analysis, and ""First Mover"" discussed CoinDesk Future of Work Week coverage with Lennix Lai of OKX (previously Onex).
Goldman Cuts Coinbase to ‘Sell’ Due to Fall in Crypto Prices and Industry Activity; Shares Drop: The company faces a difficult choice between shareholder dilution and effective employee compensation, the report said.
FTX Token DAO Raises $7M From Community of Sam Bankman-Fried Fans: The money is destined for a fund that will contribute to community-led projects across decentralized finance (DeFi) and crypto education.
Voyager Digital Issues Default Notice to 3AC, Draws Down $75M of Alameda Revolver: Shares in the crypto exchange plunged last week on disclosure of its exposure to Three Arrows Capital.
Shiba Inu's SHIB Jumps Amid Speculative Frenzy, BONE Proposal: SHIB rose by nearly 48% in value since the weekend before a sell-off this morning.
Opaque Platforms and Intertwined Protocols Pose Big Risk to Crypto: Second article in a series about risks we’re thinking about during these crypto down days.
Other voices: Crypto needs to be eradicated (Al Jazeera)
""President Biden and the British government said members of the Group of 7 — Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain and the United States — would move on Tuesday to ban imports of Russian gold. Representatives for the assembled countries were also negotiating toward an agreement to buy Russian oil only at a steep discount."" (The New York Times) ... ""Took too long to reconnect with @snoopdogg - you know we had to make a movie! http://Eminem.lnk.to/FromTheD2TheLBC #FromTheDToTheLBC #curtaincall2 @BoredApeYC"" (Marshall Mathers/@Eminem/Twitter) ... ""While Bitcoin is technically cryptocurrency, it's ""not crypto"" in the sense that nearly all crypto projects these days are DINOs / unregistered securities."" (Jameson Loop/Twitter)"
112,1110,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/28/first-mover-asia-remember-icos-you-would-have-made-a-fortune-if-you-hodled-bitcoin-slogs-toward-20k/,First Mover Asia: Remember ICOs? You Would Have Made a Fortune if You HODLed; Bitcoin Slogs Toward $20K,"Investors who purchased a breadbasket of blue chip coin offerings about five years ago would have generated an 819% return, even with the current bear market; most cryptos fell in Tuesday trading.",2022-06-28,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin slogs toward $20K; ether and other cryptos slide.
Insights: The performance of blue chip ICOs over five years may resonate with investors concerned about the current bear market.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,281 -2.5%
Ether (ETH): $1,143 -4.9%
Bitcoin Slogs Toward $20K
So much for the good times.
Bitcoin dipped for a third consecutive day to fall perilously close to the $20,000 threshold it had eclipsed last week and that has become a psychological barrier for investors who see the current bear market worsening.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading under $20,300, down about 2.5% over the past 24 hours as investors eyed the latest influx of discouraging economic data. On Monday, the U.S. Consensus Bureau's durable-goods report showed orders in May rising higher than estimated, fresh evidence that the economy was not cooling enough for the Federal Reserve to moderate its current monetary hawkishness.
Tuesday, the Conference Board found consumer confidence in the economy lagging to its lowest level in almost decade, a sign of the anxiety spurred by rising inflation, geopolitical unrest and recession fears. The report dovetails with the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index falling to an all-time low last week.
""These are extremely anxious times in the markets so the celebrations didn't last very long,"" Oanda senior market analyst Craig Erlam wrote in an email, alluding to recent gains.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands below $1,200, off almost 5% over the same period. Most other major cryptos were in the red with SHIB and DOGE plunging nearly 8% and 7% respectively at one point. The popular meme coins had led in market returns for the past seven days.
Stocks
Crypto's downturn tracked stock markets, which fell for a second consecutive day as last week's surges faded increasingly into the background. The tech-focused Nasdaq dropped nearly 3% while the S&P 500 fell 2% and continues to linger in bear market territory, meaning that it has dropped at least 20% from its previous high.
Investors on Wednesday will be listening for statements about the global economy from central banking heads who have been meeting at a forum in Portugal. Later in the week, they will look for declines in May’s Personal Consumption Expenditure (month-over-month) and the June Purchasing Managers Index for manufacturing, a widely watched measure of monthly economic activity published by the nonprofit Institute for Supply Management (ISM).
High drama
Crypto markets saw a return of the type of high-drama events that have unsettled markets over the past two months. The CEO of the futures crypto exchange CoinFLEX accused the Bitcoin Cash supporter and noted investor Roger Ver of owing it $47 million in the stablecoin USDC. Ver had tweeted earlier Tuesday that ""some rumors have been spreading"" that he had defaulted on a debt to a counterparty; instead, he said, the counterparty ""owes me a substantial sum of money.""
And after a report emerged that the crypto exchange Huobi Global might cut over 30% of its workforce, an official at the rival exchange OKX announced plans for the company to increase its headcount by 30%.
Oanda's Erlam was pessimistic about crypto markets' path in upcoming days ""given the stream of negative headlines over the last couple of months.""
""I fear more may follow in the weeks ahead and I wonder whether the community does too, given its inability to get any traction above $20,000,"" he wrote.
S&P 500: 3,821 -2%
DJIA: 30,946 -1.5%
Nasdaq: 11,181 -2.9%
Gold: $1,819 -0.2%
If You'd Held Certain Blue Chip ICO Tokens, You Would Have Earned Big
Initial coin offerings (ICO) pushed bitcoin to nearly $20,000 in 2017. But, as students of history know, many of these projects were unsustainable – where the vision didn’t match the team’s ability to execute – or outright scams. EY, which tracked the many of the projects that emerged from the ICO bubble, reported in 2018 that its ICO portfolio was down by 66%.
“EY found that only 29% (25) of the 2017 ICO projects that EY assessed have progressed to prototypes or working products – an increase of just 13% from December 2017. The remaining 71% have no offering in the market,” the professional services firm wrote at the time.
Looking back at this sector five years later, was it really an epic loss for all involved? Or were there some triumphant wins too? The performance of ICOs resonates loudly today as crypto experiences its latest severe bear market.
To be sure, the ICO sector was rife with fraud: The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) dished out plenty of charges during this period, charging many teams with offering unregistered securities or cases of outright fraud.
But it’s also a period where some of the most important blockchain infrastructure was developed.
Cardano, Tron, ChainLink, Filecoin, Crypto.com, Bancor. These are all names that emerged from the ICO bubble and went on to build big, important projects.
Using data from ICODrops, CoinDesk put together two portfolios of ICOs: a ""blue chip"" selection of the 100 most big recognizable names and a broad selection of 200 ICOs.
CoinDesk found that if you were to buy, and HODL, a broad selection of blue chip ICOs (data was measured in late May 2022) you would have done spectacularly well to the tune of a return of 819%. This would have blown away most other investments one could have made, including buying Nvidia’s stock, one of the best-returning stocks of the last decade, in late 2016 or the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq-100 Technology Sector Index (NDXT).
Why is this exactly? Because these projects required time to thrive.
Sure, if you had a portfolio without these projects it would have a pittance return. And if you had a broad portfolio that had everything your return would have a lot less – but still something on par with the S&P 500.
Measuring their success during the heart of 2018’s crypto winter would produce lukewarm results at best: Crypto was an asset class with a $150 billion market cap in late 2018. Now, even with all the challenges presented in the last quarter, crypto is a $940 billion asset, and many of these projects that were born in this bubble are now major industry stakeholders. What a great investment for the HODLers.
European Central Bank Forum on Central Banking
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia retail sales (May)
3:45 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:45 a.m. UTC): Speech by Luis De Guindos, vice president of the European Central Bank
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Market, Regulatory Concerns as Three Arrows Capital Defaults, FTX Denies Robinhood Acquisition Rumor
Bitcoin is trading flat as recession fears halt crypto bounce. Lars Seier Christensen of Concordium Blockchain provided his crypto markets analysis. Liquidity crisis across the crypto sector: Will it accelerate regulatory actions? Jarrod Loadholt of Ice Miller Public Affairs Group shared his regulatory perspective. Plus, Alexander Salnikov, co-founder of Rarible discussed mass non-fungible token (NFT) adoption.
Compass Mining CEO and CFO Resign Amid 'Setbacks and Disappointments': The company appointed co-founder and Chief Technology Officer Paul Gosker and Chief Mining Officer Thomas Heller as interim co-presidents and CEOs.
Investment Firm Cypherpunk Holdings Sells All of Its Bitcoin and Ether: The publicly listed firm has transitioned its treasury to cash amid increased market volatility, but it hasn’t ruled out reinvesting in cryptocurrencies when the market settles down.
CoinFLEX Says Roger Ver Owes It $47M USDC as Spat Turns Public: The crypto exchange is launching a recovery token because of debt owed by a high-net-worth customer.
SEC’s Gensler Reiterates Bitcoin Alone Is a Commodity. Is He Right?: The government's stamp of approval seems to separate BTC from ""crypto,"" but decentralization is a path.
Other voices: Crypto is not replacing the U.S. dollar, Bitfury CEO Brian Brooks says
""Roger Ver owes CoinFLEX $47 million USDC. We have a written contract with him obligating him to personally guarantee any negative equity on his CoinFLEX account and top up margin regularly. He has been in default of this agreement and we have served a notice of default."" (CoinFLEX CEO Mark Lamb/Twitter) ... ""Today we’re announcing our $7.5M seed round, led by @a16z crypto. We’re on a mission to accelerate the adoption of wallet-based authentication and identity. (Dynamic, provider of wallet-based security services) ... ""Russian lawmakers on Tuesday approved a draft law that would potentially exempt issuers of digital assets and cryptocurrencies from value-added tax."" (Reuters)"
113,1123,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/29/crypto-miners-face-margin-calls-defaults-as-debt-comes-due-in-bear-market/,"Crypto Miners Face Margin Calls, Defaults as Debt Comes Due in Bear Market","Private and publicly listed crypto miners owe up to $4 billion in debt used to finance the construction of gargantuan facilities across North America, according to industry participants and data compiled by CoinDesk.",2022-06-29,"Margin calls are coming for cryptocurrency miners as the bear market continues to claim victims.
CORRECTION (June 30, 4:47 UTC): Clarifies maturity dates for MARA and CORZ promissory notes. Removes mention of of Galaxy's mining loans amount.
The private and publicly listed crypto miners have racked up debts anywhere between $2 billion to $4 billion to finance the construction of their gargantuan facilities across North America, according to data compiled by CoinDesk and industry participants.
As the value of the miners’ output dramatically falls along with the price of bitcoin (BTC), they have to make tough decisions about how to survive – including selling off hard-earned coins and equipment.
“It was painful but necessary,” Alex Martini, CEO of mining hosting firm Blockfusion, told CoinDesk, regarding the selling of “millions” of dollars worth of bitcoin reserves to service the firm’s debt. Now Blockfusion has a cash reserve to last about six months, but “if the market doesn’t turn” the company “will be forced to do another round” of liquidations, he said.
Blockfusion is far from alone in this predicament. With the bitcoin price at its lowest levels since 2020, global processing power on the network, or hashrate, near all-time highs and energy prices climbing, miners’ profit margins are shrinking.
Older machine models are becoming unprofitable and turned off – the hashrate decreased by 11% between June 12 and June 27, data from Blockchain.com shows.
Miners once steadfast on their “hodl” strategy (holding bitcoin rather than selling it), are now being forced to liquidate their crypto holdings to pay for operating costs and loan installments.
Bitcoin mining revenue in dollar-denominated terms per kilowatt hour (kWh) has more than halved since the start of the year, data compiled by Upstream Data President Steve Barbour shows. Using newer-generation machines such as the Antminer S19 Pros and Whatsminer M30S+ can make a big difference because they bring in double the revenue of older models like the Atminer S9, according to Barbour’s data.
The miners that use the latest machines and have low electricity prices – less than 6 cents per kilowatt hour, keeping their overall cost of mining a bitcoin below $10,000 – can still make ends meet and fulfill their loan obligations, said Brian Wright, Galaxy Digital’s vice president of mining.
CoinShares investment analyst Alexander Schmidt told CoinDesk he thinks “the majority of listed miners” are still profitable even with the price of bitcoin around $20,000.
“Miners who don't have leverage and run the new generation [machines], and there's some of those in the United States, they're probably still fine” in terms of profits, said Juri Bulovic, head of mining at Foundry Digital. Foundry is owned by CoinDesk’s parent company, Digital Currency Group.
Adding debt into the equation paints a darker picture.
Publicly listed bitcoin miners have borrowed at least $2.16 billion, based on data compiled from a June 14 investor note from securities firm B. Riley Financial and including a $37 million loan disclosed by Bitfarms on June 17.
On the higher end, public and private miners have borrowed a total of $3 billion to $4 billion in loans backed by mining computers, estimated Chief Economist and Chief Operating Officer of mining firm Luxor Technologies, Ethan Vera.
Core Scientific (CORZ) and Marathon Digital (MARA) are among the most leveraged miners based on their debt-to-capital ratios. However, their debt obligations are mostly secured and unsecured promissory notes that don’t mature until 2025 through 2026.
The debt to capital ratio is an indication of how high a company’s debt burden is relative to its equity. The higher the ratio, the bigger the risk.
Northern Data, a German hosting firm, has a debt-to-equity ratio of 1.84, according to data reported to the German stock exchange for 2020, the highest among miners surveyed by CoinDesk.
However the ratio doesn’t accurately depict the company’s finances today, Northern Data’s head of investor relations Jens-Philipp Briemle told CoinDesk via email. The miner acquired some of its creditors in 2021 paying off debts and at the same time managed to reduce a significant portion of its debt through the sale of a 300 megawatt site in Texas. The company has outstanding debt of EUR 20 million ($21 million) which it expects to pay off by August 2022, Briemle said.
Companies ideally don’t tap into their assets to pay off their debts, instead relying on their revenues to cover payments. Many miners are likely not bringing in enough revenue to pay off their monthly debt installments for these loans, regardless of what prices they bought machines at, considering common loan terms, said Bulovic.
For example, as of the end of the first quarter, Stronghold Digital Mining (SDIG) had outstanding borrowings of $70 million to pay off by the year end, but incurred a net loss of $30 million in the same quarter, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The miner did not respond to CoinDesk’s request for comment on this story.
Miners that borrowed money to finance their expansion plans are now having to make tough decisions. Many “of those loans are underwater today” and borrowers need “significant revenues beyond the financing to remain current,” said Neil Van Huis, partner at BlockFills, which was one of the first firms to give out equipment financing loans to miners in 2020.
Equipment financing loans like the ones miners take out are “underwater” when the value of the loan exceeds the value of the underlying asset, such as bitcoin mining machines.
At the height of the market, when bitcoin was over $60,000, companies were purchasing miners at $90, $100 and even more per terahash, Bulovic said. That adds up to as much as $10,000 per machine. “The larger price tag means that the loan amount was higher. That means that the monthly payments are higher,” he said.
Firms that placed orders for mining rigs “at the height of the bull market for peak prices with a significant deposit,” are now “in a difficult spot to follow through,” said Jamie Leverton, CEO of Hut 8 Mining (HUT). “In due course, we’ll see some defaulted loans, unclaimed miners, and acquisition targets,” Leverton said.
Miners that were 100% financed, are less than two years old and are small without beneficial economics are likely to be the first ones to see defaults on the associated loans, said Van Huis.
Miners’ difficulties in paying their installments engender risk for the overall ecosystem, as they leave lenders exposed to defaults. Hut 8 Mining’s Leverton said she expects miners to go into arrears. Miners have to prepare for the bear market during bull times, thinking about how to manage the cycles, treasuries and balance sheets, she said at CoinDesk’s Consensus 2022 conference in Austin, Texas, last month.
According to Van Huis, lenders BlockFi and NYDIG have given out “horrible credit” that miners will have a hard time repaying given current market conditions. These companies do not disclose how many mining loans sit on their balance sheets, so it’s hard to estimate how exposed they are.
After days of speculation over its finances – including a supposedly leaked balance sheet that purported to show the company suffered a net loss of $221 million amid 2021’s bear market – BlockFi announced it got a $250 million credit line from FTX. Many called it a bailout. The lender has not responded to CoinDesk’s requests for comment on this story.
Companies like “Celsius, BlockFi, specifically BlockFi and even NYDIG, when they were financing people at 75% to 80% LTV [loan to value] at $65 per terahash or higher, many of them were much higher towards $80 a terahash” have built “horrible credit for the industry because all of those loans are underwater today,"" Van Huis said.
Loan-to-value ratios are used to assess the risk of a loan by comparing its value with that of the underlying collateralized asset. The higher the ratio, the higher the risk, which often translates into a higher interest rate.
Broadly speaking, in the past couple of years interest rates for equipment financing loans for bitcoin miners usually are in the double digits, between about 10% and 19%, publicly traded miners’ filings with the SEC show. (For comparison, even after recent increases, home mortgage rates in the U.S. run in the low to mid-single digits.)
An $80 price tag for a terahash of mining power looks high considering that application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) are now selling for below $60/TH, according to data from Luxor’s Hashrate Index. This suggests that not only were the initial loans given out risky, but that the value of the underlying assets has significantly decreased as the value of ASICs has diminished.
“Some lenders took on more risk than others,” in terms of the protections that they have in place in cases of defaults and how they calculated LTV, Wright said. LTV can be calculated with the value of bitcoin or machines at the time the loan is given out, but a lender should consider what the actual liquidation price will be when the time comes, he explained.
BlockFi and NYDIG were giving out very large loans quite late in the cycle, said another industry insider who did not want to be named while commenting on other companies. This would mean that the price per terahash and therefore the monthly installments are higher. There are lenders in the market that are “very exposed” and “very worried,” the insider said.
BlockFi declined to answer a list of specific questions from CoinDesk. Chief Risk Officer Yuri Mushkin said the firm “runs a diversified lending business to the crypto ecosystem,” of which “mining-backed loans are only a portion.” Mushkin added, “These mining-backed loans are collateralized, and we follow the same prudent risk and underwriting practices that we implement across the rest of our institutional business.”
NYDIG didn’t respond to CoinDesk requests to comment on this story.
The New York-based lender signed off on a $70 million loan for Argo Blockchain in March and a $37 million credit line for Bitfarms on June 14. Along with the loan, Bitfarms said it was selling off 1,500 BTC. Just a week later, the miner said it had sold another BTC 1,500 to pay off its other debt from Galaxy.
Read more: Bitfarms Looks to Boost Liquidity With Sale of 1,500 Bitcoin, New Loan
TeraWulf also took on a $15 million loan in the form of a convertible promissory note on June 13.
If the “economics don't change, it's just a matter of time until some miners default” while at the same time “lenders have relatively little recourse” to “save themselves” because the value of collateral, usually mining machines or bitcoin, is dropping every day, the insider said.
Celsius recently halted withdrawals for customers without much explanation, triggering investigations from authorities in several U.S. states.
BlockFi, like Celsius, was working with funds raised from depositors, which means it has to pay them back, whereas NYDIG raised money through equity, so it will just take longer for it to recoup those funds, said Van Huis.
Only about 6% of Galaxy Digital’s $5.3 billion assets are related to mining, or $301 million, according to a quarterly earnings report. A spokesperson declined to comment on the mining figures for Galaxy's lending activities.
Miners have been selling bitcoin to exchanges at record paces. In May, bitcoin miners sold over 100% of their monthly production, compared to 30% between January and April, said Jaran Mellerud, senior researcher at Arcane Research.
On-chain information platforms like CryptoQuant and CoinMetrics have noted record flows of coins from miners to exchanges over the past few weeks. This is not necessarily an indication of selling; it could mean that miners are staking their tokens or preparing to sell, Wright explained.
With tight liquidity, miners that pledged bitcoins they mined as collateral to get equipment loans might not be able to monetize them for anything other than paying off their debts. In these cases, the collateral is likely held by the lender, and will only be sold in the case of a margin call, Bulovic said.
This was the case for Blockfusion, which had a margin call at $29,000, according to the firm’s CEO. A margin call occurs when the value of a borrower’s collateral falls below a certain threshold, determined in agreement with the lender. In that case, the borrower has to come up with the funds to exceed that threshold, which sometimes means selling assets at unfavorable market prices–such as BTC below the $20,000 mark.
Blockfusion had to choose between posting more collateral or selling its bitcoin, Martini said, adding that most miners he knows “lost their collateral.”
At the same time, firms that raised money by taking on debt or diluted their stock by issuing more shares have restricted their ability to grow at this time because they have to either post additional collateral or liquidate their bitcoin holdings, said Matthew Schultz, executive chairman at CleanSpark, a bitcoin miner that bought existing contracts for 1,800 machines this month from another peer.
“We were presented with the same opportunity as everybody else,” Schultz said. CleanSpark had the chance to leverage bitcoin “for the benefit of a little bit of cash flow and then to see competition raised to the point that it becomes almost unrealistic,” he said. But the company avoided that, and has the second-lowest debt to capital ratio among surveyed miners.
To secure a $35 million loan from a venture capital funder earlier this year, CleanSpark instead collateralized its bitcoin mining rigs.
Bitcoin miners that posted their machines as collateral are faced with a different set of problems. With miners looking to offload their machines for much-needed cash, the prices of ASICs have significantly dropped.
Ideally, miners would sell older machine models but there is no market for them at the moment because they are unprofitable, said CleanSpark’s Schultz, so they are “forced to sell newer equipment” or leverage their bitcoin.
Rack space is a limiting factor for those looking to buy up rigs.
If a firm that mines for its own account went bankrupt, it couldn't mine at its site because it would be out of cash, so even if a lender wanted to take over the machines, they would have to find a hosting site to plug those machines in, Van Huis said. But all hosting sites are at maximum capacity, he added.
One U.S.-based mining hosting firm told CoinDesk that it has been getting an increasing number of calls from near-desperate miners looking to house cheaply bought rigs. But the host’s facilities are completely full so it can’t take any of the offers.
In an even more precarious spot are mining firms that took out loans secured with future orders, meaning contracts for machines that have yet to be delivered. These miners have to pay off rigs that aren’t making them any money at the moment.
Lenders and borrowers saddled with big loans “against purchase orders” are in a “tough position” because not only has the value of the machines significantly dropped, but the equipment is not even in the U.S. at the moment, Wright said.
“I don’t see how you can survive that,” Van Huis said.
Some miners may have to take on additional loans to buy rigs for which they already put down deposits.
“A sample set of public miners still owe $1.9 billion this year, for the ASIC purchases that they've committed to,” said Galaxy Digital’s head of mining, Amanda Fabiano, during a panel discussion at Consensus 2022.
Read more: Bear Market Could See Some Crypto Miners Turning to M&A for Survival
Regardless of what collateral miners used, its value has decreased in the past few months, Galaxy’s Wright said. “I haven't actually seen a big difference between miners that pursued bitcoin-backed loans, as opposed to ASIC-backed loans,” he added.
Industry sources to whom CoinDesk spoke agreed the industry will consolidate in the coming months as weaker players are forced to offload assets.
This will not only bring opportunity for other players in the form of cheap ASICs, but will make it easier for those still participating to mine bitcoin.
“As less-efficient miners go offline, the lower network hashrate will directly benefit high efficiency machines with low shutdown prices,” Canaccord Genuity analyst Joseph Vafi wrote in a June 20 research note.
The difficulty of mining a bitcoin block and reaping the rewards automatically readjusts to keep the time required to around 10 minutes. The higher the network hashrate, the higher the difficulty.
The next difficulty adjustment is expected to make it easier to mine a block, as miners have dropped off the network.
Mining rig deliveries are still coming online, which will drive up the hashrate later in the year, said CoinShares analyst Alexander Schmidt.
At the same time, rising natural gas prices are putting additional pressure on margins for companies like Marathon Digital and Hut 8 that rely on this resource. “Miners powered 100% by renewables may benefit from lower competition,” Canaccord Genuity’s Vafi wrote."
114,1122,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/29/first-mover-asia-how-traders-are-shorting-tether-stablecoins-bitcoin-falls-but-holds-above-20k/,First Mover Asia: How Traders Are Shorting Tether Stablecoins; Bitcoin Falls but Holds Above $20K,Hedge funds are increasingly betting against USDT in anticipation of it losing value amid concerns about the coin’s reserve backing and systemic risks; ether drops.,2022-06-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether decline; other major cryptos in the red.
Insights: Hedge funds are betting against USDT amid concerns about the stablecoin's backing and systematic risks.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $21,199 -0.4%
Ether (ETH): $1,108 -3.4%
Bitcoin and Major Altcoins Decline
Say this about bitcoin over the last 10 days. It's been stubborn, clinging fiercely to its perch above $20,000, the support level that has grown increasingly important for investors gauging the current crypto winter's staying power.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was down a fraction of a percentage point over the past 24 hours but still resilient at about $20,200, even amid the latest angst-provoking industry news, including a report of an order by a British Virgin Islands court for the liquidation of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. Bitcoin has dropped four consecutive days and dipped for a few short spells below $20,000 earlier on Wednesday before rising.
""The news cycle has been pretty awful for crypto markets,"" Oanda senior analyst Edward Moya wrote in an email, adding: ""Concerns are growing that the collapse of Three Arrows Capital could trigger further market contagion.""
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at about $1,100, down over 3% for the same period and about 13% from its high last week when cryptos surged on encouraging comments from U.S. central bank chair Jerome Powell. Other major cryptocurrencies spent their day in the red, most of them significantly so, with BTT off more than 7% at one point and GRT and APE, each down over 4%.
In a slight twist from its pattern throughout much of the year, cryptos veered from major equity indexes, which were flat on Wednesday after Powell said inflation could continue to rise, a result of the disruptive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and reaffirmed the Fed's commitment to address price pressures even at the expense of recession.
Three Arrows debacle continues
Powell's comments offered little comfort for crypto investors already wrestling with the ongoing Three Arrows debacle. The firm has suffered heavy losses in the recent sharp downturn and faces the possibility of insolvency after incurring at least $400 million in liquidations. Crypto brokerage Voyager Digital (VOYG.TO) issued a default notice to 3AC this week after the fund failed to make required payments on loans of 15,250 bitcoins and $350 million in USDC. Voyager's shares plunged after it disclosed its exposure to 3AC.
3AC has been an active investor in the digital asset industry in recent years with investments across non-fungible tokens, decentralized finance, layer 1 blockchain firms and crypto companies.
Meanwhile, a CoinDesk report found that private and publicly listed crypto miners have racked up debts anywhere between $2 billion to $4 billion to finance the construction of their gargantuan facilities across North America and faced hard decisions about how to survive. And a report by financial services giant Deutsche Bank said the free fall of crypto markets could continue because of the system’s complexity.
Oanda's Moya was pessimistic about bitcoin, noting its struggle ""to hold onto the $20,000 level"" and ""the risk"" of miners having ""to unload some of their holdings as they’ve overcommitted with [graphic processing units].""
""The big transition to a proof-of-stake (POS) for the Ethereum blockchain is a game changer that could hurt miners who financed a lot of hardware,"" Moya wrote. ""If bitcoin breaks below the recent low around $17,500, there isn't much support until the $14,500 level.""
S&P 500: 3,818 -0.07%
DJIA: 31,029 +0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,177 -0.03%
Gold: $1,818 -0.03%
How Traders Are Shorting Tether Stablecoins
Hedge funds are increasingly placing bets against tether (USDT) in anticipation of the U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin losing value amid concerns about the coin’s reserve backing and systemic risks from within the crypto ecosystem.
The short positions are worth “hundreds of millions” of dollars, according to crypto trading fund Genesis and have gained since May’s implosion of terraUSD (UST). These include funds such as Fir Tree Partners and Viceroy Research, that have previously bet against tether, citing the issuing company's opacity about the asset’s actual backing and the lack of audited reserves.
“There has been a real spike in the interest from traditional hedge funds who are taking a look at tether and looking to short it,” Leon Marshall, head of institutional sales at Genesis said earlier this week, as reported. Genesis and CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of Digital Currency Group.
There are also concerns of traders being able to cash out U.S. dollars from tether. “Traders are naturally concerned about being able to cash out of tether,” said Jeff Mei, chief marketing officer at blockchain solutions provider ChainUp, in a Telegram message. “They are seeking safer and more transparent stablecoins such as USDC to transfer their assets to.”
But how are traders betting against a coin priced at $1? As per Paolo Ardoino, chief technology officer at USDT issuer Tether Global, the bets are occurring on futures tracking USDT and on liquidity pools on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications.
“Goal: create enough pressure, in the billions, causing ton of outflows to harm Tether liquidity and eventually buy back tokens at much lower price,” Ardoino explained in a tweet earlier this week.
Exchanges like FTX offer USDT futures to traders, allowing traders to bet on price gyrations as the token falls, or gains, fractions of pennies around the $1 level. Data shows the USDT futures product show over $65 million in trading volume in the past 24 hours, with open interest – or the number of unsettled futures contracts – hovering over the $400 million mark as of Wednesday.
On DeFi applications, shorts on USDT are possible by borrowing the tokens and exchanging them for USDC, another U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin. The strategy here is that if and when USDT falls, the original loan can be paid back at a cheaper cost with the difference pocketed.
Data from DeFi lending protocol Aave shows the rate to borrow USDT is a yearly 2.48%. This means one would pay $2,480 a year on borrowing $100,000 worth of USDT. If USDT were to drop to, say, 90 cents, a trader could repay the loan with $90,000 worth of USDT, pocketing just over $7,500 after fees.
Traders shorting USDT say the asset could lose value if its reserve backing is proven false. The stablecoin is backed by fiat currencies and equivalent asset investments such as commercial paper, bank deposits, bonds, gold and cryptocurrencies, according to issuer Tether Global.
Shorters say Tether Global has been misrepresenting these reserve funds. Tether, however, denies such claims and maintains it holds “100% of the backing.”
Data shows massive outflows from Tether have already taken place in the past few months. In mid-June, investors pulled $1.7 billion from tether in one week, as reported. Meanwhile, Tether’s market capitalization has fallen by over $20 billion since mid-May, CoinGecko data shows.
Meanwhile, some like ChainUp’s Mei suggest short-selling tether isn’t necessarily a bad move.
“Short selling is a natural part of market price discovery. When there is a market downturn, many weaknesses that were previously hidden start to surface,” Mei said.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia and New Zealand Banking Group business confidence (June)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Non-Manufacturing PMI (June)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): China NBS Manufacturing PMI (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Court Orders Three Arrows Capital to Liquidate, Compass Mining CEO, CFO Resign
Crypto's liquidity crisis continued to send shock waves across the industry. Mark Palmer, BTIG managing director and head of digital assets research, joined ""First Mover"" to share his analysis of Voyager Digital and the troubled crypto lender Celsius Network. Joe Orsini of Eaglebrook Advisors provided markets analysis and Chad Barraford, THORChain technical lead, discussed building blockchain interoperability.
FSInsight Accuses Three Arrows Capital of Running a ‘Madoff-Style Ponzi Scheme’: 3AC borrowed recklessly from just about every institutional lender in the business, a report from the research firm says.
Nansen Casts Blame for stETH 'De-Peg' on Terra: The report from the blockchain analytics firm also explains how Celsius and Three Arrows Capital helped foment their own declines.
Deutsche Bank: Crypto Free Fall Could Continue Because of the System’s Complexity: As bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are speculative, high-risk assets, they are disproportionately affected by central bank tightening, the bank said.
Influencers Are Responsible for 92% of Crypto Ad Violations in India, Report Says: Violations included not carrying a required disclaimer or paid partnership tag on the ad, according to the Advertising Standards Council of India.
Citi Flags Crypto-Backed Real Estate Mortgages Amid Falling Market Conditions: The bank points to the rise of crypto-backed mortgages and financing of digital property purchases.
From an Attention Economy to a Values-Driven Economy: Cryptocurrencies, NFTs and DAOs are powerful tools for an increasingly interconnected world. This article is part of CoinDesk's Future of Work Week.
Other voices: The promise and peril of crypto for Black investors (NPR)
""The Horizon Bridge hacker has so far sent 41% of the $100 million in stolen cryptoassets into the Tornado Cash mixer. Mixers such as Tornado Cash are used to hide the transaction trail. However, Elliptic has used its Tornado demixing capability to trace all of the stolen funds through Tornado and onwards to other wallets. Users of Elliptic’s solutions can now screen wallets and transactions for links to the stolen funds – even those that have passed through Tornado."" (Elliptic report) ... 1/ as an investor, board director, and customer of @compass_mining, i continue to be excited by Compass' vision to make mining accessible for a wide range of bitcoiners, from retail HODLers to institutions looking to operate their own infrastructure..."" (Meltem Demirors/Twitter) ... MicroStrategy has purchased an additional 480 bitcoins for ~$10.0 million at an average price of ~$20,817 per #bitcoin. As of 6/28/22 @MicroStrategy holds ~129,699 bitcoins acquired for ~$3.98 billion at an average price of ~$30,664 per bitcoin. $MSTR"" (MicroStrategy (MSTR) founder and CEO Michael Saylor)
CORRECTION (June 30, 2022, 09:25 UTC): Corrects name and title of Jeff Mei throughout."
115,1124,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/01/the-crypto-ceo-who-doesnt-want-the-job/,The Crypto CEO Who Doesn't Want the Job,"The Mask Network's Suji Yan is building and funding Web3, and hoping it decentralizes away his role. This Q&A is part of Future of Work Week.",2022-07-01,"Four years after dropping out from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Suji Yan pinned a tweet to his profile in an unlikely moment of triumph.
The tweet was for the Web3 Drop Out Scholarship, an effort Yan founded that offers $50,000 to people who leave big companies or universities to enter Web3. If that sounds a little like the Thiel Fellowship created by billionaire Peter Thiel, which provides university dropouts with $100,000 over two years to pursue other work, that’s because it is.
In 2017, Yan thought he could offer more to the world by doing rather than learning and applied for Thiel’s scholarship. Although he didn't get it, he still dropped out. He has since started his own business, worked as an independent journalist and is now developing new tools to “decentralize” social media with figures like Jack Dorsey.
""There is not a lot of what we have [that the Thiel Fellowship] can provide,"" Yan said, adding that famed opportunity for renegades and outsiders (including Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin) now seems ""more traditional.”
Yan’s wager is that Web3 will fundamentally change the world – how we work, play and interact – over the next 20 to 50 years. The scholarship, which paid out tokens to three out of 40 candidates in its first year, is a path for similarly self-motivated people, who otherwise might be cut off from traditional financing, to start building.
See also: Balaji Srinivasan, HashKey Back $2M Round in Twitter Privacy Tool Mask Network
His own company, Mask Network, which uses open-source browser extensions to add privacy and Web3 tools to social media platforms, like Facebook and Twitter, has had its financial ups and downs, Yan said. It’s now part of Twitter’s secretive Bluesky project working to open source social media algorithms and is transitioning into Web3’s community ownership model as a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO).
""Our goal is to make sure in the next 10 years I will definitely not be a CEO. If I'm the CEO still running this business it's definitely bad,"" Yan said.
CoinDesk spoke with Yan as part of Future of Work Week to discuss why he thinks Binance and FTX are too big, the digitization of everything and at least one path to “making it” in crypto.
You were an independent reporter before getting into Web3 and crypto. Do you think journalists should learn how to code?
Coding is a tool. I think it’s definitely something really important for journalists to learn. It’s not saying they need to learn calculus or fancy machine learning. Coding is generally very important and helpful – like driving a car or being able to cook for yourself.
How did you get involved with Jack Dorsey's Bluesky project?
Bluesky was announced at the end of 2019 by Jack on Twitter. One and a half years later, Jay Graber, who had been involved in Bluesky since the very beginning, was appointed as CEO. I met her online because she was from the Zcash community. I was lucky that when I was in college, Andrew Miller was a young professor at the UIUC [University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign]. He is also co-founder of Zcash, the president of Zcash Foundation. That's how I know Zcash.
See also: Twitter Picks Crypto Developer Jay Graber to Run Bluesky
When [Mask Network] raised money we started to donate to other decentralized social networks, which also connected us to other Bluesky teams. It was a really small world in 2019. So we were all connected. Then Jay started this Discord group, which later became a much more serious group with different people from Twitter and the crypto community.
After Jack departed from Twitter in 2021, Bluesky became more independent and Jay became CEO – we're still figuring out what's the next thing we're going to do. But overall, I think, no matter what changes – like with Web5, Web6 – it doesn't matter. Whatever it is doing, we’d love to help. We’d love to be part of it. We have already been involved for two years.
How does Mask Network bring privacy and benefits from Web3 to social media like Facebook and Twitter with an open-sourced browser extension? How can you be sure that Facebook or other social media companies won't block access?
We don't use APIs (application programming interfaces). There's no server interaction or middleware. One common mistake is to believe [Facebook], you just can't believe in them. So we never use any APIs. Zero. We learn the technology, but we don't rely on any of them. There is no way to block us.
You dropped out from the University of Illinois. Why?
One thing I really care about is being pseudonymous, anonymous. I really enjoyed this community. So I just wanted to see what I could accomplish with a pure, online anonymous identity without saying, “Hey, I'm whoever from whatever college, this is my name, this is my application.”
Obviously, staying in a college is not up to most choices. So I decided to drop out. I bought ETH and bitcoin in earlier days, so I was lucky. And I did receive a lot of help back in 2017, but I didn't receive much support as a crypto founder. No one offered me a fellowship. But I dropped out and received funding from VCs to start my own business.
What do you want to achieve or encourage via the Web3 Drop Out Scholarship?
When I was in college, I didn't have this chance to receive this kind of donation. Unfortunately, the Thiel Fellowship is more traditional and there is not a lot they can provide [for Web3].
We think Web3 will provide a lot of opportunities in the next 20 or 50 years. We want kids to be able to help themselves. They say I have this dream; I just need some money to start it. No matter what dream you have, as long as it makes sense to us, we're going to help you. And if you need further funding or referrals we can provide for you. We have connections to everyone.
What was the common theme among those three successful applicants this year?
They all share a passion for the decentralized world. They all think that staying in college or large companies is not a necessary routine they have to follow. They all have enough knowledge or are willing to learn to achieve their dreams. Some of them do not have a tech background but want to learn stuff. One of the winners uploaded the proof of dropout.
You actively discuss Web3 and crypto in China, moderate panels and give speeches. What are your thoughts about the development of Web3 and crypto in China? More broadly, in Asia?
Asia is a huge market. We will not leave just because the Chinese government or whatever says it's not legal; it's like a gray area. I remember like in the early days of bitcoin, everything is a gray area. Whatever people want, that's actually what we want to build.
See also: 3 Takes About China's Crypto Ban That Are Wrong | Opinion (2021)
I'd say if it's something people want, you cannot ban it at all. If people think just because the local government doesn't like it, they just ban it. They’re completely wrong. The whole industry, bitcoin, emerged from a gray area, from a tiny piece of cyberspace.
Could Web3, truly built on open protocols, break the ""great firewalls"" of China’s internet?
They will not only break the “great firewalls.” It will break every nation-state border. That's what I believe. That is also one reason behind the Drop Out Fellowship logic: You don't need to have education from these colleges that are certified by governments. They will not, do not teach you how to do revolution. They're part of the system. But it will take years.
In your Twitter bio, you say you are “anti 996.” What do you think about the work culture in crypto?
We’re turning ourselves from a company to a foundation, and eventually, into a DAO. For now, we are still running a company, which means I'm CEO, and there are people I write checks to. The Ethereum model or Bitcoin model is working – it's like members become volunteers. That's something that really makes me excited everyday.
If I wake up in 10 years, and I realize that I’m still the CEO [that’d be] a terrible thing. I think founders of these large public companies have been CEOs for too long. 10 years ago, they're the CEO, and then after 10 years, they’re still CEOs. I think a lot of businesses are able to become communities, like decentralized exchanges.
We have a DAO to form an organization for the DAO members. The labor union is the first version of DAO. If our employees are in other DAOs, I'm really happy with that. But for now, we're still a company. Our goal is to make sure in the next 10 years I will definitely not be a CEO. If I'm the CEO still running this business it's definitely bad.
What advice would you give to someone trying to make it in crypto?
You will see a lot of big whales or big companies playing games, but try to remember the fundamentals of the industry is to evolve in a decentralized manner and cross nations’ borders. If you believe in that, if you follow that path, you're gonna be successful, you're gonna make it. But if you don't trust this logic and get lost in your marketing, you're not going to make it because you’re wasting your time.
That is what I learned in the past cycles: Don't believe in the large company and large organization. Yeah, talk to them, but believe in the fact that eventually it's the people who are going to create history. It's not the big CEO who will create history.
Large companies like Binance and FTX have become too large. The fundamental logic of this industry is we're pushing the human being into a digitalization being and forming new communities, staying together, with decentralized technology. We're realizing this.
Meet the pioneers who work at decentralized autonomous organizations.
It may be a bear market, but there are still plenty of jobs to be had at crypto companies.
CoinDesk asked a variety of crypto professionals how they got their foot in the door in the industry."
116,1126,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/04/crypto-lender-celsius-cuts-150-jobs-amid-restructuring-report/,Crypto Lender Celsius Cuts 150 Jobs Amid Restructuring: Report,Withdrawals are still paused and the company has hired restructuring experts as it faces a financial crisis.,2022-07-04,"American-Israeli crypto lender Celsius laid off some 150 employees as it battles a financial crisis that saw it halt customer withdrawals last month, Calcalist reported over the weekend.
The firm has about 650 staff members listed on LinkedIn, including executives, meaning 23% of the company was affected.
The layoffs come amid uncertainty for the company as it faces possible insolvency. In June it paused withdrawals citing “extreme market conditions” and has since hired restructuring specialists. The company said it is exploring options to “preserve and protect assets” following its mid-June turmoil.
Goldman Sachs (GS) is said to be leading a $2 billion raise from investors to purchase Celsius’s distressed assets. Crypto exchange FTX, however, is said to have passed on a deal to purchase the lender after examining its finances.
Celsius joins a growing of crypto firms letting go of staff amid bearish market conditions. Coinbase (COIN) laid off over 1,100 employees in June, with exchanges Bybit, Huobi, Banxa and several others letting go of staff in the past month.
Prices of Celsius’s CEL tokens were up 15% in the past 24 hours, CoinGecko data show."
117,1127,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/06/first-mover-asia-how-inaccurate-data-misled-investors-to-see-massive-outflows-from-this-crypto-exchange-btc-holds-steady-over-20k/,First Mover Asia: How Inaccurate Data Misled Investors to See Massive Outflows From This Crypto Exchange; BTC Holds Steady Over $20K,"KuCoin founder Johnny Lyu said those data feeds plus mislabeled, on-chain wallets propagated rumors last week that led to the token exodus; ether rises in Wednesday trading.",2022-07-06,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $20K; ether climbs late Wednesday.
Insights: Inaccurate data led investors to believe that crypto exchange KuCoin's holdings were smaller than expected, according to KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,576 +2%
Ether (ETH): $1,194 +5.5%
Bitcoin Holds Above $20K; Ether Climbs Late on Wednesday
Bitcoin rested above $20,000 for a third consecutive day.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,600, up better than a percentage point. Bitcoin had plunged below the psychologically important barrier last week before a late weekend rally. Many analysts have adopted a clear-eyed view of the current crypto climate that has suffered the dual body blows of protocol fiascos and macroeconomic uncertainty. They do not see prices rising any time soon, barring an unexpected turn for the better in the ongoing battle with inflation.
""You're seeing carnage out there,"" said David Nage, portfolio manager for asset management firm Arca, on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""You're seeing Celsius. You're seeing Voyager. You're seeing BlockFi. You're seeing a number of different headlines come in over the last few months.""
Yet, Nage also viewed positively bitcoin's ability for much of the past month to remain in its current $18,000-$20,000 range. ""Bitcoin has held steady around this trading pattern,"" he said, adding: ""We talk about digital assets as a durational effect in terms of things that are going to happen and change with society and our economic systems. Bitcoin is definitely a part of that.""
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently trading at roughly $1,190, up more than 5%. Other major cryptos also traded slightly higher with STORJ rising nearly 6% at one point and RUNE climbing more than 5%. Troubled crypto lenders CEL token dropped over 8%.
Equity markets rise slightly
Cryptos tracked major equity markets as they've done far more frequently than not in recent months, with the tech-focused Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average all up, albeit ever so slightly. Investors who have been concerned about the U.S. central bank's efforts to tame inflation may have drawn some encouragement from the release of minutes of the Federal Reserve's June meeting indicating a firm commitment to its current, hawkish monetary policy. U.S. Labor Department figures released Wednesday morning showed strong hiring in May, a sign that the economy has not been cooling sufficiently to stem inflationary pressure.
Crypto industry news centered on Voyager Digital's Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing Tuesday, which will allow the firm to reorganize with the intent of paying back at least some of its creditors. Voyager Digital followed by just a few days a bankruptcy filing by crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, which filed for chapter 15 protection tied to an ongoing liquidation effort ordered by a court in the British Virgin Islands.
Toronto-based Voyager estimated that it had more than 100,000 creditors and somewhere between $1 billion and $10 billion in assets. The firm recorded the same range for its liabilities and faces delisting by the Toronto Stock Exchange. Crypto lender CoinLoan and crypto futures exchange CoinFLEX have limited and halted withdrawals, respectively in recent days.
'Healthy markets here'
Arca's Nage noted optimistically ""some normalization ... , some healthy markets here"" in recent funding for digital asset projects. ""If you want to call it a crypto winter, whatever you want to call it, if we looked at the venture and private side, what we're seeing is really healthy activity from the private markets,"" he said.
He added regarding the broader outlook for the industry: ""We continue to get a few more these shots to the solar plexus, sentiment will probably reach its slowest peek and then we'll probably rebound. But it's going to be a long time. From a private markets perspective, we're telling our founders, really be prepared for more than two years, 36 months actually.""
S&P 500: 3,845 +0.3%
DJIA: 31,037 +0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,361 +0.3%
Gold: $1,739 -1.44%
KuCoin Held More Bitcoin Than Initial Data Feeds Indicated, Says CEO
Contagion risks emerged in the crypto market after May’s implosion of terraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin that tracked the U.S. dollar. Three Arrows Capital, or 3AC, a prominent crypto fund, took on “heavy losses” on its UST stablecoin position, which alongside poor market conditions, contributed to the firm’s collateral requirements going topsy-turvy and several loans turning into bad debts.
The company held funds from firms that included crypto lenders Voyager, BlockFi and Celsius. These funds’ 3AC exposure has led to Voyager filing for bankruptcy, BlockFi reaching a deal for its sale to crypto exchange FTX US, and Celsius turning to investment banking giant Goldman Sachs (GS) to lead a $2 billion raise for its distressed assets.
The fallout has ignited tensions throughout the crypto community with many observers questioning prominent exchanges’ and wallets’ liquidity. KuCoin, a popular crypto exchange based in Seychelles with a large Asian presence, is among the firms swept up in the industry-wide crisis.
Crypto Twitter last week claimed KuCoin was likely insolvent, with some talking heads urging users to withdraw their funds out of the exchange. This led to outflows, with some users pointing out – wrongly, as it turned out – that KuCoin’s 14 hot wallets had drained from over $1.8 billion to just $10 million within a day. (The tweet was later corrected.)
KuCoin founder and CEO Johnny Lyu, however, explained that inaccurate data feeds and mislabeled, on-chain wallets propagated rumors last week that led to the outflows.
“Most on-chain tracking tools can't present the exact balance of exchanges because many exchange addresses are not labeled on the blockchain,” Lyu told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat. “As a result, many online tracking tools, including Glassnode, miscalculated the balance of KuCoin (and maybe other exchanges too).”
Lyu said corrected data provided to Glassnode and others now accurately displays the exchange’s bitcoin holdings of between 15,000 and 20,000 bitcoins, not the few thousand the old data indicated.
Lyu added that not all exchange addresses were tagged on popular blockchain scanning tools, which also contributed to user worries.
“It's also worth noting that some KuCoin addresses are still not labeled on the blockchain, so this amount tends to be not taken into account by many statistical algorithms and tracking tools,” Lyu said.
“Due to a part of KuCoin wallets not being labeled on the blockchain, a big piece of data remains unaccounted for.”
Glassnode has not responded to CoinDesk's request for comment.
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan economic survey (current/outlook)
7:55 p.m. HKT/SGT (11:55 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde speech
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. labor force participation rate (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Voyager Bankruptcy, Fundstrat Strategist on 3AC ‘Ponzi Scheme,’ Bitcoin Above $20K
FSInsight is accusing Three Arrows Capital of running a ""Madoff-Style Ponzi Scheme."" Fundstrat Global Advisors head of digital asset strategy Sean Farrell shared his findings. Plus, David Nage of Arca provided crypto markets analysis and Nansen research analyst Daniel Khoo discussed the depegging of staked ETH.
Voyager Seeks Bankruptcy Protection Amid Crypto Credit Crisis: The Toronto-based lender filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in New York late Tuesday.
Binance Extends Zero-Fee Bitcoin Trading Globally: The crypto exchange is rolling out a program that started in the U.S. last month to its global client base.
Celsius Repays $183M on DeFi Exchange Maker, Gets Back Collateral, Blockchain Data Shows: The troubled crypto lender paid down $183 million of its debt to the decentralized exchange Maker, blockchain data shows, possibly in a bid to recover bitcoin-linked collateral that otherwise would remain trapped.
Solana-Based Chingari Tokens Plunge 87%, Developers Flag Big Sell Order: The team denies rumors of an exploit or insider trading.
Binance Resumes Local Currency Deposits with Brazilian Payment System Pix: Withdrawals should be resumed “shortly,” said the company, which had suspended that feature on June 17.
The Crypto CEO Who Doesn't Want the Job: The Mask Network's Suji Yan is building and funding Web3, and hoping it decentralizes away his role.
Other voices: How Wall Street Escaped the Crypto Meltdown (The New York Times)
""Customers with crypto in their account(s) will receive in exchange a combination of the crypto in their account(s), proceeds from the [Three Arrows] recovery, common shares in the newly reorganized Company, and Voyager tokens."" (Voyager Digital CEO Stephen Ehrlich) ... ""With deep regret I am resigning from the government. I will not be doing media interviews regarding this."" (U.K. Minister and Economic Secretary to the Treasury John Glen/Twitter)"
118,1125,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/06/voyager-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-amid-crypto-credit-crisis/,Voyager Seeks Bankruptcy Protection Amid Crypto Credit Crisis,The Toronto-based lender filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in New York late Tuesday.,2022-07-06,"Crypto lender Voyager Digital filed for bankruptcy late Tuesday, becoming the second high-profile crypto firm to do so in recent days.
The Toronto-based Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protections Tuesday in the U.S. Southern District Court of New York, estimating that it had more than 100,000 creditors and somewhere between $1 billion and $10 billion in assets. It also recorded the same range for its liabilities.
The company believes that “funds will be available for distribution to unsecured creditors,” according to the filing.
Voyager Digital Holdings, Inc., Voyager Digital, LLC and Voyager Digital Ltd. all filed for bankruptcy.
Crypto companies – and lenders in particular – have faced solvency issues in recent weeks, with several stopping customers from withdrawing their funds. Celsius kicked off this trend last month, announcing in mid-June that it would suspend withdrawals. CoinLoan, CoinFLEX and Voyager itself all announced restrictions or outright halts on withdrawals in recent days.
Voyager joins Three Arrows Capital in filing for bankruptcy. Three Arrows, however, filed a Chapter 15 petition tied to an ongoing liquidation effort ordered by a court in the British Virgin Islands.
According to writer Frances Coppola, Voyager’s loan book accounted for nearly half of its total assets, and nearly 60% of that loan book was composed of loans to Three Arrows.
In a statement posted online after this article was published, Voyager CEO Steven Ehrlich said reorganizing the company ""is the best way to protect"" the company's assets, and pointed the finger at Three Arrows for some of its woes.
Following that statement, Ehrlich posted on Twitter, ""Customers with crypto in their account(s) will receive in exchange a combination of the crypto in their account(s), proceeds from the 3AC recovery, common shares in the newly reorganized Company, and Voyager tokens.""
The filing comes as industry observers increase their scrutiny of Voyager’s business practices, particularly how the Canadian-listed firm said in marketing materials that investors' deposits were protected by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance.
While FDIC insurance would indeed protect bank-held cash deposits up to $250,000, it would not cover cash converted to stablecoins. Commentators including Coppola have called Voyager’s marketing around its handling of deposits misleading.
Moreover, the FDIC insurance kicks in in the event of a bank failure – in this case, Voyager was banked by Metropolitan Commercial Bank. There is no protection in the event of a Voyager failure.
According to the filing, Voyager Digital, Ltd.'s equity holders include Alameda Research Ventures LLC and Alameda Ventures Ltd., two companies associated with Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of crypto exchange FTX, who has extended credit lines or otherwise bailed out other crypto companies.
Voyager also owes Google nearly $1 million, according to the filing.
Voyager's stock, already battered by the crypto market selloff, was trading at 27 cents at market close Tuesday, giving the company a market cap of $65 million Canadian dollars (around US$50 million). That's smaller than the $75 million unsecured loan issued by Alameda Research, according to the bankruptcy filings.
The stock traded above $20 in November, but fell below a dollar last month.
Voyager also claimed in its blog post that it had $110 million in cash, $350 million in cash at Metropolitan, $1.3 billion in crypto and was owed $650 million from Three Arrows. It did not say what specifically the liabilities are.
Shares are currently halted from trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange ahead of what is expected to be a delisting.
UPDATE (July 6, 2022, 05:05 UTC): Adds additional context.
UPDATE (July 6, 2022, 05:55 UTC): Adds statement from Voyager.
UPDATE (July 6, 2022, 06:07 UTC): Adds Twitter statement from Ehrlich.
UPDATE (July 6, 2022, 14:25 UTC): Adds delisting information."
119,1121,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/07/euros-fall-toward-1-parity-what-it-means-for-crypto/,Euro’s Fall Toward $1 Parity: What It Means for Crypto,The 1-to-1 exchange rate may add bearish pressures around bitcoin and inject volatility into euro-pegged stablecoins.,2022-07-07,"The euro's fall toward $1 for the first time in 20 years – approaching so-called parity with the U.S. dollar – is turning some crypto traders' focus to the exchange rate’s impact on crypto valuations and to stablecoins linked to the European common currency.
Thanks to the emergence in recent years of stablecoins tied to government-issued currencies besides U.S. dollars, the vast realm foreign exchange has been slowly creeping into digital-asset markets.
And some observers say the euro's latest slide could inject bearish pressures into the bitcoin (BTC) market and influence demand for euro-pegged stablecoins.
""Currency turmoil (such as that currently experienced by the euro and others) usually ends up favoring the U.S. dollar, as forex market participants see it as the 'least risky' currency. This is accentuated by the divergent interest rate paths between the U.S. and the EU,"" said Noelle Acheson, head of market insights at the crypto trading firm Genesis Global Trading. ""This could negatively impact the price of bitcoin in dollar terms, which for the past couple of years has been negatively correlated with the dollar index."" (Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group, CoinDesk's parent company.)
The euro has depreciated by 10% against the dollar this year, a significant move for major fiat currency pair. The exchange rate was last seen trading near 1.02, or 200 pips short of the parity level of 1.00.
The decline seems to have stemmed from the European Central Bank (ECB) lagging behind the Federal Reserve (Fed) in tightening monetary policy despite rising inflation, the threat of a full-blown energy crisis in the European Union and recession fears.
""There are evident risks of a recession nowadays and the curtailment of excess dollar margin funding from the securities markets,"" Gregory Klumov, CEO of stablecoin platform Stasis, said in an email. Stasis is the issuer of euro stasis (EURS), which is the world's second-largest euro-pegged stablecoin as per market value.
""When this happens, all borrowers buy back dollars to pay back the loans they took out to improve returns and increase their exposure to risky assets,"" Klumov said. ""Therefore, when assets are sold and funding is returned, the dollar grows. The euro is no exception in this case.""
The currency market pundits are convinced that the ECB will continue to lag, allowing EUR/USD to slip well below 1.00. Engineering a lift-off from a record negative interest rate of -0.5% is easier said than done for the ECB as hawkish expectations recently saw Italian bond yields collapse relative to their German counterparts, raising fragmentation risks. Fragmentation essentially means as the central bank raises rates, the impact of the tightening is not felt in the same way across the common currency area.
Financial markets are driven by sentiment, so when a major national currency like the euro is trampled and pushed toward or below critical levels, investors tend to move out of risky assets, fiat currencies and seek refuge in established safe havens like the U.S. dollar and government bonds. Therefore, EUR/USD's drop to or below 1.00 could spur broad-based demand for the greenback, pushing lower bitcoin and other risky assets.
While bitcoin believers have long hailed the cryptocurrency as a haven asset, historically the digital currency has moved in tandem with technology stocks and in the opposite direction to the dollar index (DXY). For instance, the DXY, which tracks the greenback's value against major currencies, has rallied nearly 12% this year. Meanwhile, bitcoin and Wall Street's tech-heavy Nasdaq index have tanked 55% and 27%, respectively.
Not that things couldn't change. But that's mostly been the pattern.
Euro-pegged stablecoins could lose their shine.
Stablecoins are tokens tracked by a blockchain and intended to consistently match the purchasing power of a fiat currency, like the dollar or the euro. The issuer of the stablecoin promises that users or holders of the stablecoin can redeem the investment anytime at a one-to-one exchange rate.
The structure exposes the user to exchange-rate risk. For instance, assume a trader named Bob purchased one euro-backed tether stablecoin EURT a month ago. Theoretically Bob can redeem EURT for one EUR anytime. However, EUR/USD has declined by 4.2% from 1.065 to 1.02 in four weeks. So, if Bob redeems EURT today, the redemption would yield a loss of 4.2% in dollar terms, assuming he didn't earn additional yield by lending out the asset on the decentralized lending and borrowing protocols.
Therefore, holders of euro-pegged stablecoins may opt for redemptions, given the bearish outlook for the common currency.
""Overall, 1.0 is an important psychological level,"" Dessislava Aubert, senior research analyst at Paris-based Kaiko, told CoinDesk in an email. ""If it breaks, it will most likely spur some FX volatility in the short run, spilling into other asset classes, including crypto, and trigger selling of euro-backed assets.""
Laurent Kssis, managing director and head of Europe at crypto exchange-traded fund firm Hashdex, said the euro-pegged stablecoin market may get tested for its robustness and come under pressure.
Investors are already moving out of the euro-denominated and euro-backed assets, according to Stasis' CEO Gregory Klumov. ""In a situation where an outflow of capital from euro assets, euro shares and euro bonds takes place, it can be observed that the euro stocks are falling more than the American indices over the past few weeks. And of course, euro stablecoins are falling deeper relative to their dollar counterparts,"" Klumov said.
""Since the dollar remains the #1 benchmark for determining prices in the cryptocurrency realm even for European users, the euro stablecoin is perceived as a risky asset (although the EURS is not a risky asset by any chance). There are outflows from the euro stables happening right now and investors will change everything into dollars in such a situation,"" Klumov added.
One question is whether potential redemptions and volatility in the euro-pegged stablecoins would have a Terra-like contagion effect on the broader crypto market. The answer is probably no because the euro-pegged stablecoin market is quite small.
The euro-pegged stablecoin market was worth $440 million at press time. That's just 0.29% of the dollar-pegged stablecoin market value of $151 billion, according to data tracked by CoinGecko. Cryptocurrencies more broadly have a market capitalization of $950 billion.
The biggest euro-pegged stablecoin at press time was the euro-backed tether, or EURT, with a market value of $210 million. Euro stasis, or EURS, the second-largest euro stablecoin, had a market cap of $126 million. Terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST had a market cap of $18 billion before it collapsed in mid-May, dragging the crypto market lower and leading to volatility in the broader stablecoin market.
""Euro-backed stablecoins are still such a small portion of the overall market that any redemptions the current euro weakness might trigger would not materially impact the overall market cap,"" Acheson said.
As of writing, EURT traded at a slight discount, just below the 1 euro peg on Bitstamp, having dropped to 0.96 euro on June 20. The peg broke after UST’s collapse in mid-May. Meanwhile, the euro tether traded at a slight premium on crypto exchange FTX.
The currency market is a zero-sum game. When we say the euro is likely to lose ground against the dollar, it also means the dollar is expected to rise and there is incentive to hold the greenback-pegged assets.
So while the EUR/USD slide may dent the appeal of the EUR-pegged stablecoins, it could spur demand for the dollar-pegged stablecoins. With the Fed raising rates aggressively to tamp inflation, traders already have a solid reason to hold the dollar-pegged stablecoins.
Besides, the ECB is widely expected to exit the negative interest rate policy this year, which may eventually bode well for the euro and assets backed by the common currency. Circle, the issuer of the second-largest dollar-pegged stablecoins USDC, recently launched a new euro-backed stablecoin called EUROC, perhaps in hopes that ECB’s rate hikes would translate into demand for euro-backed assets.
Interest-rate traders expect the ECB to raise the benchmark borrowing costs by 140 basis points (1.4 percentage point) by the end of the year. The central bank's benchmark interest rate currently stands at -0.5%.
""Rising interest rates will benefit yield products, like stablecoins,"" Bill Cannon, head of exchange-traded product portfolio management at Valkyrie, said. ""Similar to traditional foreign-exchange strategy, utility depends on the use of the product, and it is our understanding that opportunities are limited in the euro-denominated stablecoin products at this time. But just like everything else crypto, that could change quickly.""
Edit (14:38 UTC): Adds quotes from Stasis' CEO Gregory Klumov in the sixth paragraph and in the ""focus on euro-pegged Stablecoins"" section."
120,1119,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/07/first-mover-asia-three-arrows-capital-court-order-reveals-interesting-details-bitcoin-soars-past-215k/,First Mover Asia: Three Arrows Capital Court Order Reveals Interesting Details; Bitcoin Soars Past $21.5K,"The Singapore firm’s liquidators must safeguard the company’s assets, which means converting them to tether; ether and other major altcoins rise for a fourth consecutive day.",2022-07-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin clears $21.5K on a good day for cryptos.
Insights: Three Arrows Capital court order reveals interesting details; CEO Su Zhu and his wife are creditors.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $21,655 +6.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,238 +6.9%
Bitcoin Soars Above $21.5K; Other Cryptos Rise
Investors seem to have really liked the Federal Open Market Committee minutes from last month. The minutes, released late Wednesday, allayed at least some fears of the U.S. central bank's commitment to tightening its monetary policy.
Stocks rose for the fourth consecutive day and so did cryptocurrencies that have correlated increasingly over the past year to major equity indexes.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $21,600, up more than 6% over the past 24 hours and outpacing all major altcoins at one point. Since dipping below $18,500 last Thursday, the largest cryptocurrency, has risen over 16%, amid what many analysts see as just a temporary lull in investor anxiety.
""I don't see it [crypto] recovering instantaneously,"" said Takaaki Koto, the global head of sales and trading at Japanese crypto exchange BitFlyer, on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" show.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap after bitcoin, has risen similarly over the same period and was changing hands above $1,200. Other major cryptocurrencies were firmly in the green, with SOL and CRO rising nearly 5% and 6%, respectively at one point. The increases dovetailed with stocks' gains as the tech-focused Nasdaq jumped over 2% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average each increased over a percentage point.
Fed determination
The upturn has come amid a now unrelenting Federal Reserve in its quest to tame inflation. Fed Chair Jerome Powell has suggested that more interest rate hikes consistent with the aggressive 50 and 75 basis points increases from the spring could be in the offing. “Participants concurred that the economic outlook warranted moving to a restrictive stance of policy, and they recognized the possibility that an even more restrictive stance could be appropriate if elevated inflation pressures were to persist,” the FOMC minutes said.
If also follows a few mildly encouraging indicators showing the economy growing less robustly than it was earlier in the year. Among the latest data, the U.S. Labor Department reported that jobless claims inched up last week, although they remain at a level consistent with a strong job market. The non-manufacturing purchasing managers index edged down.
""Clearly, the Street remains on recession watch,"" wrote Oanda Senior Market Analyst Jeffrey Halley in an email.
Crypto good and bad news
Meanwhile, the crypto industry wrestled with a mixture of good and bad news. Ether's price seemed to benefit from optimism about the coming Ethereum Merge that will see the protocol move from a proof-of-work to proof-of-stake protocol. The stewards of the TON Foundation created a new $90 million ecosystem fund, continuing recent attempts to get the Telegram-founded blockchain project back into gear.
But bitcoin miner Compass announced Wednesday that it had laid off 15% of its employees, and cut executive compensation to ride out the crypto downturn. Compass becomes the latest in a string of firms operating within the wider crypto industry to cut their workforces.
BitFlyer's Koto sees the current rocky an environment as a possible opportunity for the industry. ""Many issues are being addressed, whether it's having to cut costs or just increasing risk awareness, risk management, or just trying to improve trust in the system, whether through regulation or stability.
He added: ""These things do take time. But crypto things happen (at) fast forward speed. It might happen sooner.""
S&P 500: 3,902 +1.5%
DJIA: 31,384 +1.1%
Nasdaq: 11,621 +2.2%
Gold: $1,740 -1.3%
Three Arrows Capital Court Order Reveals Interesting Details
A total of 2,319 bitcoin and 31,177 ether, or US$80 million, is the debt from Deribit trading accounts that triggered the liquidation of Three Arrow Capital, the once mighty crypto hedge fund that had nearly $10 billion under management, according to a court document filed in the British Virgin Islands (BVI).
In March 2020, at crypto’s lowest point, Deribit says Three Arrows took out a loan denominated in bitcoin and ether. On June 11 of this year, Three Arrows breached the margin requirements and two days later Deribit began to liquidate Three Arrows’s account per its instructions. Normally this wouldn’t happen as the account was a non-liquidating account (unlike what most retail plebs have at FTX) but these were exceptional times. By June 15 the account was closed and Deribit requested payment for the shortfall that amounted to $80 million.
Most of that has been reported already. But there’s a lot more that’s interesting inside the order that’s not headline material.
Safeguarding assets
For instance, the presiding Judge, ordered the overseeing liquidators to “safeguard the value of the company’s assets from market volatility.” That means converting any crypto it sees fit into dollars, or a stablecoin like tether (USDT).
So much for the underlying belief that bitcoin is an excellent store in value.
The court document also lists Su Zhu and Kelly Kaili Chen, the wife of co-founder Kyle Davies, as company creditors – meaning they are on track to be paid before others. Such an arrangement would infer the two loaned money to Three Arrows, perhaps during its earlier years. This is a common arrangement for startups but curious for one that’s been around for just under a decade and hyper-profitable until recently.
Certainly, the idea of Su Zhu being paid as a creditor during the liquidation process of Three Arrows won’t be a popular one considering the cascading institutional losses caused by the fund’s failure, alongside the massive drop in the price of bitcoin and other digital assets. But he is a creditor. For how much and why exactly will be explored at a later date as this proceeding moves through the courts.
Singapore operation
The next question is how will this affect Three Arrows’s Singapore operation. As of the close of business on July 7 in Asia, there’s no record of a winding-up order for Three Arrows with Singapore’s Insolvency Office. It could be that the firm is waiting for the process to conclude in the BVI before moving on.
But what will happen to the company’s other assets, like TPS Capital, which is kept at arm’s length? That’s going to be something for the courts to decide, and there could be a particularly bloody battle should some creditors feel they aren’t getting a fair amount while an arm’s length subsidiary of the company is still generating yield.
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan economic survey (current/outlook)
7:55 p.m. HKT/SGT (11:55 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde speech
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. labor force participation rate (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Boris Johnson’s Resignation: Setback for Crypto? Crypto Adoption in Japan and Argentina
""First Mover"" explored the macro and crypto industry impacts on international adoption, and how major exchanges in Japan and Latin America are doing. Guests included Takaaki Kato from the Japan-based bitFlyer exchange and Sebastian Serrano from Ripio in Argentina. Plus, Kareem Sadek of KPMG Canada provided a risk management perspective on the state of the crypto industry as the company makes its foray into the metaverse.
Celsius Network Pays Off Maker Loan, Freeing Up $440M of Collateral: The troubled crypto lender paid down the remaining $41 million of its debt on the DeFi platform.
Solana Labs, Multicoin Accused of Violating Securities Law by SOL Investor: Solana’s SOL token is an unregistered security whose insiders have benefitted while retail suffered, the suit alleged.
Boris Johnson to Quit as Pressure From Ministerial Resignations Mounts: The departure of the U.K. prime minister is likely to delay the country's plans to create a friendly environment for crypto.
Animoca Brands Leads $32M Funding Round for Planetarium Labs: The capital will help the Web3 gaming company develop its community-driven network.
Shiba Inu Plans to Launch Stablecoin, Reward Token, Collectible Card Game: SHIB prices hardly budged on the news but gas token BONE and ecosystem token LEASH rallied.
Nic Carter vs. The Bitcoin Maximalists: If maximalism has become nothing but a refusal to think through bitcoin’s actual usefulness, it has become an intellectual dead end. No surprise, then, that the intellectuals are jumping ship.
Other voices: Two crypto crash Indicators (NPR)
""The numbers are stark. Investments in U.S. tech start-ups plunged 23[%] over the last three months, to $62.3 billion, the steepest fall since 2019, according to figures."" (The New York Times) ... ""Crypto transfers are here. You can now send and receive all listed crypto assets on Robinhood..."" (Robinhood/Twitter) ... ""Today, we have made the difficult decision to reduce the size of the Compass team by 15% and to implement significant compensation and spend reductions across the rest of the business. While painful, these changes will enable Compass to stay agile and well-positioned in this evolving market, which has challenged many of our industry peers."" (Compass Mining letter)
UPDATE (July 8, 2022 14:25 UTC): Corrects the spelling of Deribit's name."
121,1120,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/08/celsius-pivots-toward-paying-off-aave-compound-debt-with-950m-collateral-as-prize/,"Celsius Pivots Toward Paying Off Aave, Compound Debt, With $950M Collateral as Prize",The troubled crypto lender Celsius started to make good on the $258 million debt on the decentralized lending protocols Aave and Compound – possibly in an attempt to reclaim collateral it had posted as guarantees. The transactions come just a day after Celsius used a debt-paydown to reclaim collateral on Maker.,2022-07-08,"Celsius, the liquidity-strapped crypto lender that this week paid down $223 million of loans on the blockchain protocol Maker to free up $450 million in collateral, now might be trying a similar strategy with two other big decentralized-finance (DeFi) platforms – Aave and Compound.
Data on DeFi data dashboard Zapper shows that a crypto wallet linked to Celsius by blockchain intelligence firm Nansen reduced its outstanding debt to Aave and Compound to $235 million from $258 million on Friday.
Should Celsius fully pay off the loans, the crypto lender will theoretically be able to reclaim about $950 million in assets that are pledged against the debt and are locked up as of now on the DeFi protocols.
These moves look like part of the firm’s strategy to restructure its debt to DeFi protocols and reclaim the valuable collateral that is locked up for now to cover the alleged hole on the firm’s balance sheet.
The bigger picture is that keen observers with access to blockchain-data explorers are getting a front-row seat to watch a troubled crypto firm as it works to solve a liquidity crunch in the era of decentralized finance.
""DeFi debt repayment could provide necessary liquidity to maximize recoverable value in a potential transaction,"" John Freyermuth, research analyst at Enigma Securities, told CoinDesk.
Celsius, helmed by CEO Alex Mashinsky, is reportedly working with restructuring experts from advisory firm Alvarez & Marshal and hired banking giant Citigroup (C) for advice on financing options. The company said June 30 that it was exploring options to “preserve and protect assets” – such steps might include pursuing strategic transactions and restructuring liabilities.
One day after that announcement, Celsius started to reduce its debt to DeFi protocols, blockchain data shows.
These types of automated loans are generally overcollateralized, meaning that the borrower pledges more assets in value than the loan it can take out. To prioritize repaying these DeFi loans is net positive for Celsius, because the firm can reclaim the valuable collateral by spending a fraction of collateral’s value.
First, Celsius started to pay back its debt to DeFi protocol Maker, which amounted to $223 million.
In less than a week, the crypto lender fully paid off its loan and got a hold on the debt’s collateral worth $450 million, CoinDesk reported Thursday, in the form of wrapped bitcoin (WBTC), a bitcoin derivative product on the Ethereum blockchain.
Hours later, the firm transferred $500 million in WBTC to the crypto exchange FTX, possibly with the intention to sell.
And now, Celsius appears to be getting more active on Aave and Compound, where the payoff might be even bigger.
At press time, the Celsius wallet owed $150 million to Aave in Circle’s USDC stablecoin and another $85 million to Compound in Maker platform’s DAI stablecoin, according to data on Zapper.
The collateral Celsius pledged against the Aave and Compound loans was worth about $633 million and $316 million, respectively, in the form of various cryptocurrencies or derivatives such as WBTC, ETH, LINK, SNX, UNI and COMP.
Blockchain data tracer Etherscan shows Celsius transferred $16 million in Maker’s DAI stablecoin and a transaction of $3 million in Circle’s USDC stablecoin to Aave in the early hours of Friday.
Transaction history on Zapper also shows that Celsius converted yield-earning token derivatives issued by the Aave protocol of ETH, LINK, BAT and SNX back to regular tokens, amounting to $50 million at current prices.
FundStrat analyst Walter Teng told CoinDesk earlier this week that the reclaimed collateral can later be sold on exchanges or via over-the-counter deals to meet creditor demands and customer withdrawals. Any dumping by Celsius might put pressure on prices for crypto assets.
At press time, smaller altcoins among Celsius' holdings such as BAT, COMP and SNX were down down 5%, 3.2% and 7.6%, while the rest of the cryptocurrency market trades flat."
122,1128,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/11/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-slides-mixed-crypto-legacy-in-hong-kong-for-the-fcas-incoming-ceo/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Slides; Mixed Crypto Legacy in Hong Kong for the FCA's Incoming CEO,"Bitcoin slides for third day, heads back down toward $20K.",2022-07-11,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin (BTC) slides for a third day, once again threatening to fall below the crucial $20K mark.
Insights: Ashley Alder's mixed crypto legacy in Hong Kong does not bode well for the industry in the U.K.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,824, -3.5%
Ether (ETH): $1,165, -4.2%
The week ahead: U.S. inflation report due; economists assess impact of Abe assassination
Crypto markets weakened over the weekend, with bitcoin sliding for a third straight day and falling back toward $20,000 as of press time on Sunday.
Some analysts are now pinning $17,000 as a key market support level.
""We continue to expect choppy price action,"" said Joe DiPasquale, CEO of BitBull Capital, in an email. ""More strong bidding around the $17K level, if bitcoin falls there again, will be a strong signal for the bulls and may indicate the formation of a potential bottom around that price.""
Traders this week will be watching for the latest U.S. consumer price index reading, expected Wednesday. The report could influence market expectations over the Federal Reserve's next move, at a meeting later this month; as of the last reading, inflation was at its fastest in four decades.
One point of consideration: This past Friday's report on U.S. jobs growth in June has alleviated some concerns that the country is already in a recession; that should make it easier for the Federal Reserve to proceed with interest-rate increases of 75 basis points (0.75 percentage point), or three times as fast as in past rate-hiking cycles.
As CoinDesk's George Kaloudis wrote Sunday in his ""Crypto Long & Short"" column: ""A 75 basis point increase to interest rates in July is basically a foregone conclusion at this point.""
And Oanda Senior Market Analyst Ed Moya wrote last week: ""If inflation delivers another upside surprise, the September meeting could see expectations fully priced in a half-point rate increase but that could easily go up to 75 basis points.""
Bank of Japan watchers are assessing what the assassination of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe might imply for the nation's monetary policy, according to Bloomberg. Abe had been a strong advocate for ultra-easy financial conditions in the face of the country's economic stagnation.
Friday July, 8:
S&P 500: 3,899 -0.8%
DJIA: 31,338 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 11,365 -0.1%
Gold: $1,741 -1.3%
Ashley Alder's Mixed Crypto Legacy in Hong Kong
By Sam Reynolds
The U.K's Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the nation's financial watchdog, announced Friday that Ashley Alder, the CEO of Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission, will assume the post of chair in January 2023.
While Adler has a long list of accomplishments regulating Hong Kong’s traditional finance securities market, his curriculum vitae isn’t as stellar when dealing with crypto.
Certainly part of that is out of his control. As CoinDesk previously reported, the ""long shadow"" of China hangs over Hong Kong. China’s prohibition on crypto trading and Beijing’s fast erosion of Hong Kong's separate and autonomous legal system has chilled interest in the industry, and forced what interest there is into the narrow licensing regime that does exist.
Hong Kong's recently passed licensing regime for exchanges, which is overseen by Adler's SFC, excludes non-accredited investors from trading on these exchanges (called Virtual Asset Service Providers, or VASPs, per local terminology). For as much criticism as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's Gary Gensler gets, this is never something that the SEC has considered.
Secondly, any exchange that serves Hong Kong, even if located abroad, would need to comply with these same licensing requirements.
Treated as a Security
Perhaps the bigger issue with the SFC’s treatment of crypto is the regulator treats it as a security. This is especially going against the grain when global regulatory trends have backed away from treating all crypto as securities and are only looking for specific instances instead.
The SFC’s bill requires exchanges to hold a “Type 1” license, which is used for dealing in securities.
Hex Trust’s Alessio Quaglini has complained before that requiring this sort of license is akin to forcing a square peg into a round hole because of the uniqueness of the digital assets industry. Hex has been awarded licenses in both Singapore and Dubai with the intent to open more offices abroad.
So while Alder’s TradFi regime saw Hong Kong lauded as one of the world’s freest economies by libertarian-leaning think tanks, that same assessment can’t be made for the future of finance. FTX voted with its feet and left the city, and only one firm, OSL, has bothered to get the license.
It’s not yet known who will replace Alder, but it’s unlikely to be someone who wants to take a balanced and fair approach to crypto.
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): Japan machine tool orders (YoY June)
3 p.m. HKT/SGT(7 a.m. UTC): China new loans (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Robust Gains in US June Jobs Report Defies Recession Fears, Fmr Japanese PM Shinzo Abe Assassinated
The U.S. economy added 372,000 jobs in June, more than the expected 250,000 according to Dow Jones estimates. Ruchir Sharma of Rockefeller International and Marc Chandler of Bannockburn Global Capital joined ""First Mover"" to share their views on global markets and the impact of macro headwinds on crypto. Plus, Ray Luo, KuCoin head of institutional business development, shared details of the firm's semi-annual report.
Three Arrows Wanted a $100M NFT Collection. Instead, It’s Worth Less Than $5M: The company had dreams of institutional interest in non-fungible tokens. But as the firm declares bankruptcy, the NFT collection is worth a paltry sum. One investor has written off its entire investment in the ""Starry Night"" fund.
Celsius Pivots Toward Paying Off Aave, Compound Debt, With $950M Collateral as Prize: The troubled crypto lender Celsius started to make good on the $258 million debt on the decentralized lending protocols Aave and Compound – possibly in an attempt to reclaim collateral it had posted as guarantees.
Musk Scraps Deal to Buy Twitter, Prompting Board to Threaten Suit: The billionaire said he believes the number of false and spam accounts counted in the social media platform's monetizable daily active users is ""wildly"" above 5%.
Bitcoin Will Make a Comeback, Rockefeller International Chairman Says: “We need the excesses to get weeded out,” Ruchir Sharma told CoinDesk TV.
Crypto Exchange Blockchain.com Faces $270M Hit on Loans to Three Arrows Capital: Blockchain.com “remains liquid, solvent and our customers will not be impacted,” wrote CEO Peter Smith in a letter to shareholders.
US Treasury Develops 'Framework' for International Crypto Regulation: The document is the first publication from the department to stem from President Biden's executive order on digital assets.
FDIC Probing Voyager Claims It Was Insured by Regulator: The Canadian-based crypto exchange filed for bankruptcy earlier this week.
Ethereum's Sepolia Testnet Successfully Switches to Proof-of-Stake: The Sepolia proof-of-work chain merged with its proof-of-stake chain on Wednesday, taking Ethereum one step closer to its own Merge moment.
The Era of Easy DeFi Yields Is Over: Alpha in decentralized finance is about to get a lot more scarce (although still super attractive). Luckily, risk management will eventually get much simpler.
Other voices: Beware the crypto narratives (Axios)
""Mr. Gensler purports to be concerned that bitcoin trading could be vulnerable to market manipulation, which could harm investors in spot bitcoin [exchange-traded products]. Yet, the $390 billion bitcoin market is the deepest and most mature of all cryptocurrencies. It would be hard for an investor to game."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... [T]his seems to be true for so many emergent technologies. we focus too much on statistically improbable long-tail outcomes and not enough on the practical risks in front of us that are all but guaranteed. (Meltem Demirors/Twitter) ... ""We are closely monitoring recent events where risks in the system have crystallized and many crypto investors have suffered losses. Despite significant investor losses, the crypto financial system does not yet appear to be so large or so interconnected with the traditional financial system as to pose a systemic risk."" (Vice Chair Lael Brainard, Federal Reserve)"
123,1132,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/12/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-below-20k-and-btcs-inverse-correlation-with-inflation-adjusted-bond-yield-hits-record-high/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Below $20K and BTC's Inverse Correlation With Inflation-Adjusted Bond Yield Hits Record High,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for July 12, 2022.",2022-07-12,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: BTC dips below $20K, open interest moves upward and more on the unfolding of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital.
Market Moves: Omkar Godbole looks at how bitcoin's fortunes are more closely tied to the U.S. real or inflation-adjusted bond yield than ever.
Bitcoin (BTC) was trading down 5% on the day, dipping below the $20,000 mark as a sell-off in traditional markets saw equity indexes decline.
If BTC holds the $20,000 support, it should soon be back at $25,000 (resistance), according to Matteo Bottacini, trader at Crypto Finance AG.
“Otherwise, the price is likely range-bounded again between $18,500 and $21,000,” wrote Bottacini in a note Tuesday.
The dollar rallied against all major developed market economies and the euro slipped closer to parity against the greenback on recession concerns.
Ether (ETH), fell by 7.8% over the last 24 hours and is back to trading around $1,000. The cryptocurrency reached a high of $1,250 over the weekend.
In the derivatives market, the amount of open bitcoin and ether perpetual futures contracts have recovered slightly this month, after dropping by double digits in June, according to data from Kaiko.
Bitcoin perpetual futures open interest rose 11% to $6 billion since the start of this month. Kaiko research notes that this is partly supported by a 7.6% increase in prices. Ether’s open interest rose at a slower pace of 7% to around $3 billion.
The increase was mainly driven by rising open positions on the two largest derivatives exchanges, FTX and Binance, according to Kaiko.
Meanwhile, BitMEX, crypto futures and spot exchange, announced Tuesday it has delayed listing its Ethereum-based BMEX token because of current market conditions.
“We have made the decision to postpone the listing of the BMEX Token on our spot exchange,” it said. “The reason is quite simple. Although we are ready to list BMEX, the present market conditions are not ideal, and we want to list the token in an environment that gives it the best chance to reward you, its holders.”
In other news, Sam Reynolds reported that Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu broke his Twitter silence Tuesday by posting screenshots of an email sent from his legal counsel to legal representatives of Three Arrows' liquidators, alleging they are ""baiting"" Zhu and co-founder Kyle Davies and ignoring their attempts to work with them in good faith.
According to a report from Reuters, cryptocurrency exchange Binance failed to deliver on money-laundering prevention promises. Binance operated outside the rules that many rival firms follow, while being ambiguous over the jurisdiction in which the main business is located, the news organization said.
And finally, Celsius Network, the troubled crypto lender, paid down $95 million of its debt to the Aave and Compound decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms.
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin's Inverse Correlation With Inflation-Adjusted Bond Yield Hits Record High
Bitcoin's fortunes are more closely tied to the U.S. real or inflation-adjusted bond yield than ever, with the two increasingly moving in opposite directions.
At press time, the 90-day correlation coefficient between bitcoin and the yield on the 10-year U.S. inflation-indexed security stood just shy of the record -0.95 reached at the end of June.
The record inverse or negative correlation means bitcoin is moving in the opposite direction of the inflation-adjusted yield. A correlation coefficient is a number between +1 and -1, representing the linear interdependence of two variables or sets of data. If the correlation coefficient is -1, it means relationship between the two variables is negative 100% of the time. If the number is at +1, the two securities move in the same direction.
A positive real yield means the bond payout is exceeding the market-based measures of inflation expectations. Therefore, the higher the real yield, the lesser the incentive to chase returns from other assets like cryptocurrencies, stocks and gold.
So, it's no surprise that bitcoin, technology stocks and gold have taken a beating this year alongside an uptick in the real yield. The real yield has surged by more than 172 basis points to 1.72% this year, thanks to the U.S. Federal Reserve's resolve to drain liquidity with rapid-fire interest rate hikes and balance sheet run-off to fight rampant inflation. While the leading cryptocurrency by market value has dropped nearly 57%, the tech-heavy Nasdaq index and gold are nursing a 27% and 5.2% loss, respectively.
The record negative correlation means the possibility of bitcoin plunging below the June low of $17,601 cannot be ruled out should the real yield continue to rise. And to the dismay of bulls cheering the bottom signals on blockchain indicators, the path of least resistance for the real yield appears to be on the higher side. That's because, inflation is showing no signs of slowing down and the Fed is unlikely to apply brakes to policy tightening anytime soon.
Read the full story here: Bitcoin's Inverse Correlation With Inflation-Adjusted Bond Yield Hits Record High
Policy Makers Should Get On With Regulating Crypto, BOE’s Cunliffe Says: The Bank of England’s deputy governor said regulators should accelerate crypto rulemaking, and if certain risks involving crypto can’t be managed, related activities must be stopped.
Uniswap User Loses $8M Worth of Ether in Phishing Attack: The attacker enticed users with a fake Uniswap airdrop message.
Bitcoin Drops to $19.7K as Recession Concerns Weigh on Financial Markets, Euro Nears Dollar Parity: Singapore’s state-owned investor Temasek said it sees more broader-market declines in the coming months.
Brazilian Fintech PicPay to Launch Crypto Exchange, Real-Tied Stablecoin: The company, which has 30 million active users, will offer bitcoin, ether and USDP trading.
This web version of today's First Mover newsletter was produced by Sage D. Young."
124,1134,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/12/behind-voyagers-fall-crypto-broker-acted-like-a-bank-went-bankrupt/,"Behind Voyager’s Fall: Crypto Broker Acted Like a Bank, Went Bankrupt","In an industry where counterparties are tightly bound together by a weave of debt and leverage, dominoes can fall fast and hard.",2022-07-12,"At its height, Voyager Digital boasted 3.5 million users (roughly what Coinbase boasted in 2015) and $5.9 billion in assets, comparable to a small regional bank or respectable wealth management firm.
Ninety-seven percent of Voyager’s clients stored less than $10,000 on the platform, indicating a broad base of individual investors. It was a crypto lending and trading powerhouse – one of the few digital asset brokerages listed on stock markets anywhere in the world (albeit in Canada rather than the U.S., its home country).
Voyager’s future, until recently, looked bright. Leadership seemed barely able to conceive of a bear market, much less its consequences. Speaking in 2021, CEO Steve Ehrlich said that “I think the market looks completely different today from what it looked like in 2017. We all remember 2017.”
As it turns out, 2021 was actually a lot like 2017 – both were quickly followed by a brutal crypto market crash. Ehrlich’s sunny optimism has yielded a rotten harvest.
The Jersey City, N.J.-based company is now known to have made immense unsecured loans to Three Arrows Capital (3AC). That failed hedge fund now appears to have defaulted on all of its obligations, and its founders are reportedly fugitives.
That alone was apparently a mortal wound. On July 1, Voyager froze customer funds. Just days later, it filed for bankruptcy protection in New York.
Voyager is in a bleak situation. “The Debtors are facing a short-term ‘run on the bank,’” according to a statement Ehrlich filed alongside bankruptcy papers. But, also according to Ehrlich (who did not respond to a request for comment for this story), Voyager has a brighter future: “Debtors have a viable business and a plan for the future.” (Under Chapter 11, the company is seeking to reorganize rather than liquidate.)
So how did a once mighty and well-regarded crypto lending outfit get here?
Short version: Voyager was pretty good at attracting deposits. When it came to lending that money out … not so much.
In the company’s chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, Ehrlich gave a rare public play-by-play of a crypto lender’s mistakes. It’s a story that, at least by Ehrlich’s telling, begins with the collapse of the Terra blockchain ecosystem and the ensuing contagion.
In an industry where counterparties are tightly bound together by a weave of debt and leverage, dominoes can fall fast and hard. Voyager is casting itself as a victim of the cryptopocalypse, undone not by any direct exposure to the likes of Terra’s UST stablecoin and LUNA token, but merely through unlucky business partners.
Voyager said it quickly moved to hedge its risk as crypto winter began in early 2022, in part by reducing loans and mitigating counterparty risk. All the better to protect against Terra’s spectacular May collapse. This effort was successful “in most instances.”
Until it wasn’t.
Things turned sour in June. Three Arrows Capital, a widely respected Singapore-based hedge fund with loans across the industry and bets across the space, “was in jeopardy” of failing to pay up. Its own “massive” bets on LUNA had imploded into a black hole of losses.
Three Arrows was also underwater on positions in Lido staked ether (stETH) and the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust. (Grayscale is owned by Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.) Notably, Ehrlich does not mention either of these in his bankruptcy narrative, possibly reflecting a troubling lack of insight into the operations of a company to which he offered a $650 million unsecured loan.
Either way, Three Arrows was down bad across the board. It was also one of Voyager’s single largest lending customers.
To understand Voyager’s collapse, you first have to understand what its business actually was.
To depositors, it looked an awful lot like a bank with a few twists. Up front, users deposited cryptocurrency rather than government fiat. Around the back, while Citibank or the teachers’ credit union might generate revenue by turning deposits into home loans, Voyager was engaged in (it turns out) much riskier lending.
Voyager is one of several retail-facing crypto institutions that generate interest on deposits by loaning crypto assets out to traders and institutions. Investment firms and hedge funds like Three Arrows Capital rely on these loans to make big trades. They take in capital from lenders, long or short a cornucopia of (risky) assets, invest in early-stage companies – and if all goes well, earn massive returns relatively quickly.
Some of these returns funnel back to their lending partners as interest payments. In turn, those partners, lenders like Voyager, pass a slice of the interest to customers. The process creating that chain of events that led to these yield payments is almost irrelevant – and certainly not transparent – to depositors. All they see is a nice payout in their accounts.
Until, that is, something goes wrong.
When asset prices tumble or a counterparty defaults on a massive loan, the lenders are left with gaping holes in their balance sheets. The systemic downturn has blown up not just Voyager but also Celsius and Babel Finance, all of which have frozen withdrawals and most of which now appear insolvent.
That has had real ramifications for real people, many of whom came to Voyager and its ilk with modest savings, in search of higher yield. What they may be realizing too late is that these crypto lenders are not the same as banks, and it’s unclear exactly how or if their deposits will be recovered. Voyager, for its part, is now under regulatory scrutiny for allegedly misrepresenting insurance on customer deposits.
Among crypto lenders, Voyager is also notable because it's the first to take the bankruptcy route. As part of that process, Ehrlich has filed a lengthy statement detailing the company’s challenges. It provides an unvarnished glimpse into the same shaky foundations of all the crypto lenders.
One of those details is the rates paid by borrowers. According to Ehrlich’s statement, Alameda Research would pay up to 11.5%, Three Arrows Capital 10% and Genesis 13.5%. (Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.) Three Arrows was by far the biggest counterparty, with over $650 million borrowed. This “integral part of the business” is how the cash cow mooed.
Note also 3AC’s low interest rate relative to other borrowers. That would seem to reflect above-average faith in the fund, and multiple lenders did make generous loans to Three Arrows co-founders Kyle Davies and Su Zhu on friendly terms. Voyager stands out, though, for extending such a huge loan without requiring collateral from Three Arrows. That gesture of trust, as we’ve since learned, was woefully misplaced.
But the lending business rallied like no other during the pandemic, when speculative mania from retail traders pushed everything from GameStop stock to dogecoin into silly season. From early 2020 to early 2022, the Voyager platform ballooned from 120,000 to 3.5 million users. Voyager benefited from low U.S. dollar interest rates and skyrocketing enthusiasm for the world’s hippest, hottest, most boom-and-bust prone risk-on asset.
But as bubbles do, crypto-mania hit its limit in late 2021, and assets started hemorrhaging value. The war in Ukraine, rising inflation and rate hikes from the U.S. Federal Reserve further shook crypto’s up-only drumbeat. Between November of 2021 and April of 2022, crypto asset prices slumped by roughly 33% across the board.
Then the wild card reared up. Starting in early May, the UST stablecoin began a “death spiral” that wiped billions of dollars in wealth from the global crypto economy. Within days, a blockchain that Ehrlich claims was “widely viewed as a project with significant promise” and had major backing from investors of all stripes, had gone all but kaput.
Meanwhile, two less dramatic but similarly threatening sinkholes were opening. Starting in early 2021, the Greyscale Bitcoin Trust began trading at a significant discount to the underlying bitcoins. And stETH, effectively a promissory note for ETH on the upcoming Ethereum 2.0 system, began trading at a discount to ETH. Both of these developments meant investors had to take big losses if they wanted to turn positions in those assets into ready cash.
One big holder of both GBTC and stETH was, you guessed it, Three Arrows Capital. 3AC’s loss of its entire $200 million initial stake in LUNA might not have been fatal if it hadn’t already been underwater on those other positions. But in any event, Three Arrows, for years one of the most respected trading firms in crypto, did the unthinkable: It simply disappeared.
Voyager had previously loaned $350 million in the stablecoin USDC and 15,250 bitcoins to Three Arrows. As the market continued to slide, Voyager made multiple demands for repayment in late June. But Three Arrows did not respond and was also ghosting other partners. $650 million of Voyager funds, effectively including a lot of customer deposits, was simply gone.
The dominoes were falling. Terra’s downfall led to Three Arrows’ default led to Voyager’s reckoning.
This wasn’t some normal crypto winter.
Contagion season had arrived.
To stop the bleeding, Voyager in mid-June brokered a nearly $500 million loan facility with Alameda intended to support the company’s short-term finances. It was at best a Band-Aid, a “partial solution” to contagion-fueled liquidity issues exacerbated by the greater crypto market rout.
Making matters worse, Celsius, another crypto lending giant, was falling apart at the same time. Celsius froze customer withdrawals on June 12, shaking broader confidence in lenders and the markets and prompting Voyager’s own clients to run for safety. Lowering daily withdrawal limits from $25,000 to $10,000 per day on June 23 was meant to stop the race to the exit and buy Voyager time.
But it wasn’t enough in the face of what Ehrlich describes as “an influx of customer withdrawals” that threatened “the Company’s ability to serve customers who remained on its platform.” As the market continued to fall, Voyager’s situation grew ever bleaker. On July 1, it froze all customer withdrawals and trading to “avoid irreparable damage to the Debtors’ business and ensure that its trading platform operated smoothly for all customers.” (Not being able to withdraw, it must be noted, seems in itself like less than smooth operation.)
Voyager went into what might be described as panic mode. By mid-June, it retained legal counsel; a consultancy joined the fray by month’s close. The Canada-listed public company needed “potential strategic solutions” to its looming liquidity crisis – and it needed them fast. That could include selling businesses or raising capital.
Some temporary breathing room came in the form of a June 20 unsecured loan facility worth roughly $500 million from trading powerhouse Alameda Research. Alameda founder Sam Bankman-Fried (also the CEO of the FTX exchange) has become crypto’s backstopper-in-chief during the market rout. Voyager initially borrowed $75 million, to be (theoretically) paid back by late 2024.
Meanwhile, the investment bankers reached out to “60 potential financial and strategic partners” – that is, potential saviors – according to Ehrlich. They got 22 leads toward a rescue deal, but only one proposal emerged. The offer was too much of a lowball for Voyager to stomach. No other options appeared.
“It became clear that a potential strategic transaction would only emerge after the Company petitioned for chapter 11 relief,” Ehrlich states.
Voyager tells the court it plans to mount a comeback. A Chapter 11 restructuring would allow Voyager to shed debt and restructure itself, rather than having to liquidate its assets. “Voyager will move as swiftly as possible through these cases to maximize the value of its business and allow customers to fully use the Company’s platform,” Ehrlich writes. A “robust marketing process” is already underway to signal Voyager cannot be counted out.
That marketing effort will need to be very robust indeed, since both broader conditions and some of Voyager’s own actions have profoundly undermined whatever public trust it enjoyed. A restructuring plan announced Monday would compensate users for missing crypto with shares of Voyager equity and Voyager tokens (whatever those are).
That’s unlikely to leave users particularly happy, though it might give them a backdoor incentive to continue using the crippled service.
UPDATE (July 12, 23:01 UTC): Removes BlockFi from list of platforms that have paused withdrawals. Madelyn McHugh, a spokesperson for the lender, said it has not done so."
125,685,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/13/wobble-in-steth-price-shows-fear-celsius-might-dump-435m-stake/,Wobble in stETH's Price Shows Fear Celsius Might Dump $435M Stake,"The discount on stETH, a derivative of ether, surged as the crypto lender reclaimed and then transferred almost 10% of the total supply of the token.",2022-07-13,"An obscure crypto-market metric known as the ""stETH discount"" is suddenly sending a distress signal, possibly because of speculation that the troubled lender Celsius Network is preparing to dump some of its holdings in a bid to raise liquidity.
The discount represents the difference between the price of ether (ETH), the second-largest cryptocurrency, and the stETH token, which is a derivative of ether and is supposed to have a similar price.
But on Tuesday, the discount widened from 2.6% to 4%, the highest level since early this month. The figure remains below the all-time high of 8% recorded last month during the week when Celsius suspended withdrawals and crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital blew up.
Market watchers are paying close attention to Celsius partly because the liquidity-strapped crypto lender is one of the largest single holders of the stETH token. So if it dumps its stake, the price of stETH could come under heavy pressure, even if the price of ether isn't affected.
The sudden impetus comes from blockchain data showing that Celsius on Tuesday paid off debt on the decentralized finance protocol Aave and in exchange received back 416,000 stETH tokens (worth $435 million at current prices) that had been pledged as collateral.
The stack represents almost 10% of the total supply of stETH, which stands at 4.2 million. The total market capitalization of stETH is $4.3 billion, according to CoinGecko.
“The stETH position poses significant price risk to the market among the yield-bearing collateral that Celsius had,” Fundstrat analyst Walter Teng told CoinDesk.
Read more: How Crypto Lender Celsius Overheated
The price gap between stETH and ETH has become a closely followed measure of the stress crypto markets have endured lately.
The stETH token represents 1 ether (ETH) token deposited to the staking platform Lido to earn a 4% annual yield for locking up in Ethereum’s upcoming proof-of-stake blockchain.
The caveat is that staked ETH cannot be redeemed in the foreseeable future, until well after Ethereum completes its transition to the ""proof-of-stake"" method of maintaining its network, a switch known as the Merge. Investors who stake ETH on Lido receive the equivalent in stETH tokens, which they can use as collateral to take out loans.
Celsius was one of the depositors on Lido, locking up its ETH to earn a yield and using stETH to ""recursively borrow"" on Aave, David Duong, head of institutional research at crypto exchange Coinbase, wrote in a report.
Read more: Crypto Market Chaos: No, Lido Is Not ‘the Next Terra’
Ether and stETH tokens changed hands at a one-to-one ratio up until the multibillion-dollar implosion of the Terra network and its UST stablecoin in May, which kickstarted a credit crisis among crypto firms.
Then, stETH's price further deviated from the price of ETH as crypto firms such as Alameda Research, Amber and insolvent Three Arrows Capital dumped their holdings in a sign of a liquidity crunch.
Celsius was among the firms that dumped the token, a report by blockchain data firm Nansen found.
The primary market those institutions used to get rid of stETH is an exchange pool on Curve, a DeFi platform where users can swap their tokens for ETH.
Yet the earlier round of stETH dumping left the Curve pool mostly drained and heavily imbalanced, shrinking to a fraction of the size it once had. At press time, it held about 150,000 ETH and 484,000 stETH, an imbalance with staked ether accounting for 76% of the liquidity while ether accounting for the rest.
This makes it impossible for Celsius to dismantle its 416,000 stETH position in the Curve pool alone, because there isn't have enough ETH tokens to swap into.
Celsius is one of the slew of crypto lenders facing liquidity issues lately. Vermont’s Department of Financial Regulation alleged that the lender ""is deeply insolvent,"" while regulators in several other U.S. states have started investigations.
Read more: Looking at the Claims Celsius Operated Like a Ponzi
Celsius moved all of its publicly known stETH holding to an unknown wallet earlier Tuesday, as CoinDesk reported, raising questions about what it intends to do with it.
Last week, after paying off its debt to DeFi platform Maker to reclaim $440 million in wrapped bitcoin (WBTC) tokens, the lender deposited the tokens to crypto exchange FTX.
If Celsius wanted to pursue a similar strategy with its freshly unlocked stETH stack, it faces a more difficult challenge as the market for stETH is fragmented and the Curve pool is too shallow to unwind the position.
“To offload their stETH exposure, Celsius would have to carefully structure trades across DeFi, centralized exchanges and any counterparties they can find,” John Freyermuth, an analyst at Enigma Securities, told CoinDesk.
That might include seeking ""requests for quotations from over-the-counter desks that are willing to undertake this liquidity risk,” Fundstrat's Teng added, possibly at a discounted price."
126,684,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/13/celsius-pays-off-last-defi-loan-reclaims-nearly-200m-of-wrapped-bitcoin-from-compound/,"Celsius Pays Off Last DeFi Loan, Reclaims Nearly $200M of Wrapped Bitcoin From Compound",The troubled crypto lender previously paid off loans from Aave and Maker.,2022-07-13,"Celsius Network, the embattled crypto lender that is facing liquidity troubles, fully paid off its remaining debt to the decentralized finance (DeFi) lending protocol Compound, freeing up nearly $200 million of pledged collateral.
The firm paid down $50 million to Compound early Wednesday and reclaimed 10,000 wrapped bitcoin (wBTC), a bitcoin-replica token retrofitted for the Ethereum blockchain. The wBTC stake is worth about $195 million at current prices.
Data on the blockchain transaction tracer Etherscan shows that a wallet linked to Celsius transferred 50 million DAI tokens – MakerDAO's dollar-pegged stablecoin – to Compound in two instances. After the down payments, Compound released 6,900, then 3,100 wBTC tokens to Celsius that had been locked up on the protocol as collateral.
After that, Celsius transferred 10,000 wBTC to the same unlabeled wallet address where the firm's 416,000 stETH stake – some $435 million at current prices – ended up the day before.
The maneuver followed a similar treasury-management tactic that Celsius used recently to fully pay off and close its loans from the DeFi lending protocols Aave and Maker. The loans on these protocols are overcollateralized, meaning the borrower has to lock up more digital assets in value than the loan's value.
Paying off overcollateralized loans is theoretically a net positive for Celsius's liquidity because the move unlocks more assets in value than what is needed to pay down the loans.
Celsius is among the crypto lenders crippled by the recent liquidity crisis among crypto firms. The Department of Financial Regulation in Vermont, a U.S. state, alleged the lender is ""deeply insolvent."" The firm suspended withdrawals, cut jobs and hired restructuring advisers.
However, Celsius has been making good on its debt to DeFi protocols. Since the start of July it has paid back $223 million to Maker, $235 million to Aave and $258 million to Compound.
As a result, it reclaimed more than a billion dollars worth of its crypto assets, mostly in wBTC and a type of ether (ETH) derivative token called stETH, which had been stuck on the protocols as collateral.
After paying down the Maker loan, blockchain data showed that the firm sent almost $500 million wBTC previously reclaimed as collateral to the crypto exchange FTX.
UPDATE (July 13, 21:13 UTC): Added 4th graf with information about the firm's latest wBTC transaction and 10th graf about previous wBTC transfer to FTX."
127,753,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/14/btc-shows-resilience-despite-widespread-risk-aversion-and-celsius-bankruptcy-filing/,"First Mover Americas: BTC Shows Resilience Despite Widespread Risk Aversion, Celsius' Bankruptcy Filing","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for July 14, 2022.",2022-07-14,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: Bitcoin and altcoins are trading up over the last 24 hours despite widespread risk aversion and more negative news from crypto lenders.
Market Moves: A decentralized exchange says it's pushing back against that crypto-market convention – with plans to offer ""expirable"" futures contracts
Bitcoin (BTC) was trading 3% up on the day even as troubled crypto lender Celsuis is the latest to file for bankruptcy.
Celsius, which is facing a liquidity crisis, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, the lender said in a statement issued late Wednesday.
BTC was trading at around $19,820 at the time of writing, holding surprisingly well even after negative news. Ether (ETH) was also slightly down over the last 24 hours, at $1,070.
Polygon’s MATIC was up 17% over the last 24 hours, following the news that the Ethereum scaling solution will join Disney’s ‘Accelerator Program’ to develop augmented reality, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and artificial intelligence experiences.
Also rallying overnight was decentralized exchange Uniswap's UNI token, which climbed 16%.
“We’ve seen strong gains across select decentralized finance (DeFi) coins overnight, such as UNI, SYN and LDO,” said Matthew Dibb, co-founder of Stack Funds.
“While the gains aren’t on huge volume, they appear to be forming a technical base at these levels, which may lay ground for further upside,” said Dibb.
Meanwhile, bankrupt crypto lending platform Voyager Digital's native coin voyager (VGX) has more than tripled in three days. According to one analyst, the move appears to be driven by a short squeeze.
Since Tuesday, VGX has increased by 257% from $0.14 to $0.50 with prices hitting a high of $1.01 in the past 24 hours, CoinDesk data shows.
In other news, crypto exchange OKX has followed in the footsteps of FTX and Kraken and secured a license in the UAE, according to a press release on Thursday.
A metric which measures the difference between bitcoin’s going market value and its 200-day simple moving average (SMA), the Mayer Multiple, is suggesting the $836 billion crypto market may be close to bottom.
At press time, the Mayer Multiple was 0.53, meaning the crypto market valued at $863 billion was worth almost half of its 200-day average of $1.603 trillion.
The Block reported that ""move-to-earn"" Solana-based project Stepn, which awards users for walking/jogging, announced Tuesday that it earned $122.5 million from platform fees in the second quarter of 2022, and 5% of those earnings will go toward buying and burning the project's native token, green metaverse token (GMT).
DEX Contango Pushes Retro Alternative to Perps With 'Expirable Futures'
The bitcoin perpetual swap is an innovation in crypto markets that was pioneered in 2016 by the exchange BitMEX and quickly adopted by rivals, including Binance and FTX.
Perpetual swaps are like futures contracts without expiration dates; they can be held indefinitely without the need to roll over contracts as they reach maturity.
The decentralized exchange Contango says it's pushing back against that crypto-market convention – with plans to offer ""expirable"" contracts that more closely resemble the traditional futures traded on exchanges like CME, linked to everything from bitcoin to crude oil and pork bellies.
Contango says its offering will be the first of its kind on a decentralized exchange, or DEX. The firm said Thursday in a statement that it raised $4 million in a seed round in December, at a $45 million valuation, from an investment group led by ParaFi and including Coinbase Ventures, Spartan Group and Amber Group.
The company says its platform is undergoing security audits and that it plans to launch a beta version later in the summer.
The downside of perpetual futures is that funding rates (periodic payments that are long or short based on the difference between perpetual and spot prices) are largely unpredictable, according to Contango’s co-founder, Kamel Aouane.
Whereas with expirable futures, investors are in full control of the cost from the beginning.
“With perpetual futures, if you are on the wrong side of the market, you are bleeding money,” said Aouane, in an interview with CoinDesk.
Contango prices futures using spot and interest rates, as implied by the interest rate parity, a formula well known in traditional finance.
There are currently no other DEX’s that offer expirable futures in the crypto market, according to a report on the state of the crypto derivatives market by Jump Crypto, the cryptocurrency arm of the decades-old trading firm Jump Trading Group.
In the report, Jump Crypto wrote that the decentralized derivatives markets across both futures and options are “under-developed” compared with their centralized counterparties.
Read the full story here: DEX Contango Pushes Retro Alternative to Perps With 'Expirable Futures'
Digital Euro Would Be a Success Only if Widely Used, ECB Says The European Central Bank expects to complete the investigation phase of its digital euro project in the autumn of 2023.
Voyager Digital's Token Surges Over 250% on 'Short Squeeze' A short squeeze refers to a sharp rally fueled by the unwinding of bearish positions or several sellers rushing to take profits.
OKX Secures License in Dubai and Plans to Open Regional Hub OKX has followed in the footsteps of FTX and Kraken in securing a license in the UAE.
India's Crypto Industry Advocacy Body Disbanded The Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council was the only body representing the interests of India's crypto industry.
Celsius' Mining Unit Files for Bankruptcy Just Months After Announcing IPO Intention Celsius Network's mining unit, which said in March it planned to go public, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, along with its parent company.
Celsius Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy The troubled crypto lender says its purpose for the voluntary action is to enable a ""comprehensive restructuring plan"" that benefits all ""stakeholders.""
Brazilian Congress Postpones Crypto Bill Vote Until After October Presidential Elections Deputies were originally scheduled to consider the text this week, which has already been approved by the Senate.
This web version of today's First Mover newsletter was produced by Sage D. Young."
128,757,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/14/first-mover-asia-ma-bankers-see-crisis-as-opportunity-with-celsius-and-inflation-in-focus/,"First Mover Asia: M&A Bankers See Crisis as Opportunity, With Celsius and Inflation in Focus","One analyst says ""meh"" as bitcoin climbs back above $20K as reports surfaced that troubled crypto lender Celsius might be teeing up a bankruptcy filing. Mergers & acquisitions bankers are seeing a slew of deals stemming from the current market crisis.",2022-07-14,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin's price clawed back above $20K despite a hot U.S. inflation reading. ""Meh,"" said one analyst.
Insights: Interest in mergers and acquisitions within the crypto sector is gaining traction amid a bear market and falling venture capital interest, Shaurya Malwa reports.
Please sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $19,904 +2.6%
●Ether (ETH): $1,090 +4.3%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,801.78 −0.4%
●Gold: $1,733 per troy ounce +0.5%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.90% −0.05
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin (BTC) was higher, gaining for the first time in six days and clawing back over $20,000.
The expectation going into Wednesday was that a high U.S. inflation reading for June would push the Federal Reserve to get more aggressive in tightening monetary conditions to slow the consumer-price increases – and that in turn would put negative pressure on prices for risky assets, from stocks to bitcoin.
U.S. stocks ended the session lower, so bitcoin's rise prompted some head-scratching from crypto analysts.
""Normally, this is bad news for the economy and the markets,"" wrote Alexandre Lores, director of blockchain markets research at Quantum Economics, wrote in a newsletter. ""Whether it's just another piece of bad economic data thrown onto the pile, or whether this was already priced in, so far investors are meh about it.""
In digital asset markets, Polygon's MATIC token was up 11% after Polygon was selected as one of six companies to join Disney's Accelerator program.
And crypto analysts were gawking at an obscure market metric known as the ""stETH discount"" – possibly a sign troubled crypto lender Celsius Network might be getting ready to dump some or all of its $435 million stash of staked ether (stETH) tokens. Krisztian Sandor had that story, as well as another exclusive based on blockchain data showing Celsius paying off its final installment of loans to decentralized finance protocols – in this case a $50 million loan to Compound.
(Just before press time, CNBC reported that Celsius's lawyers were notifying state regulators that it had started Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. Celsius didn't immediately respond to an email from CoinDesk requesting comment.)
Today's First Mover Asia was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Greg Ahlstrand.
Crypto M&A Becoming a Thing as Cash-Flush Giants Pick Up the Little Guys
By Shaurya Malwa
Interest in mergers and acquisitions within the crypto sector is gaining traction amid a bear market and falling venture capital interest.
Companies flush with cash, such as crypto exchange FTX, are using their resources to capitalize on distressed assets in times of turmoil. The exchange’s U.S. counterpart, FTX US, recently gained an option to buy embattled crypto company BlockFi for up to $240 million, after offering a $400 million line of credit.
Separately, blockchain protocol company Ripple said in May that it was prepared to use its “strong balance sheet” to purchase the companies behind popular crypto protocols and products.
The sentiment follows a record year for mergers and acquisition activity in 2021. According to a PwC report, such deals accounted for transactions totaling more than $55 billion, much more than the $1.1 billion recorded in 2020.
Average deal sizes in the space last year also tripled to $179.7 million in 2021 from $52.7 million in 2020, the PwC report found.
Some analysts say the increasing interest in purchasing existing crypto players comes from the “size is important” mentality of founders.
“Companies that already dominate segments of their market and who think that size is important will use the opportunities to buy smaller competitors to absorb their customers,” said Martin Hiesboeck, head of research at crypto bank Uphold, in an email with CoinDesk.
“Financial institutions with money at their disposal have always used times of crisis to strengthen their position. This is nothing new, and certainly not a feature special to crypto. Just like in banking, few banks in any country dominate the market,” Hiesboeck added.
That does not, however, mean that smaller operators with innovative or disruptive business models don't have room to grow, Hiesboeck said.
Meanwhile, Hiesboeck said a number of smaller crypto players might be facing turbulence in the current market conditions. “Data leads us to believe that around eight smaller exchanges/wallets are currently struggling, however it's still unclear across the market how this will play out,” he said, without divulging specifics.
“The changing regulatory environment, in particular in the European Union, will force exchanges, and lenders in particular, to disclose more information about their holdings and liabilities, and therefore allow us to have a clear picture of who may be buying and who may be bought,” Hiesboeck said.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin, Crypto Markets Turn Red Upon News of US Inflation Hitting 9.1%, Legal Ramifications of NFT-backed Loans
U.S. economy recorded 9.1% inflation in June, a new 40-year high. Will policy makers look for even more aggressive measures to tame inflation, and how would this affect crypto markets? Plus, Jeff Karas, lawyer at Anderson Kill, discusses the complexity and risks of using non-fungible tokens (NFT) as collateral for secure loans. And Aaron Selenica, a college student who lost money trading on the now bankrupt Voyager Digital, shares his story.
Former Crypto Adviser Michael Barr Confirmed as Top US Financial Watchdog: The U.S. Senate approved the appointment of Barr, an ex-Ripple adviser who served in Obama’s Treasury Dept., as the Fed’s new vice chair for supervision.
Celsius Pays Off Last DeFi Loan, Reclaims Nearly $200M of Wrapped Bitcoin From Compound: The troubled crypto lender previously paid off loans from Aave and Maker.
Wobble in stETH's Price Shows Fear Celsius Might Dump $435M Stake: The discount on stETH, a derivative of ether, surged as the crypto lender reclaimed and then transferred almost 10% of the total supply of the token.
Polygon Joins Disney’s ‘Accelerator Program’ to Develop AR, NFT and AI Experiences: The Ethereum scaling tool is one of six companies selected by the media and entertainment giant to be a part of its new program.
The Fed Can't Whip Inflation Alone
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Bitcoin Pizza Day?"
129,867,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/14/celsius-acknowledges-12b-hole-in-balance-sheet/,Celsius Acknowledges $1.2B Hole in Balance Sheet,The news comes after the ailing crypto lender filed for bankruptcy protection Wednesday.,2022-07-14,"Celsius Network, the liquidity-strapped crypto lender that suspended withdrawals has a $1.2 billion hole in its balance sheet, according to a new court filing from the company's advisory partner, Kirkland & Ellis.
The document, which was filed to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court of the Southern District of New York, shows that Celsius holds $4.3 billion of assets and $5.5 billion of liabilities. In its list of assets, Celsius claimed it has about $600 million in its CEL token. However, the company noted in the filing the total market cap for CEL as of July 12 was roughly $170.3 million.
Celsius is one of several firms that have been hit hard by the ongoing liquidity crisis in the crypto sector. It halted deposit withdrawals on June 12, hired restructuring experts to advise on its financial situation and filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday.
As the firm was looking for solutions to its financial difficulties, crypto exchange FTX reportedly walked away from talks about a potential deal to acquire Celsius, pointing to a ""$2 billion hole"" on Celsius' balance sheet.
However, Celsius started to make good on its debt to decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols Aave, Compound and Maker as part of a treasury-management maneuver to get a hold of its assets locked up as collateral of the loans.
The crypto lender paid off $223 million to Maker, $235 million to Aave and $258 million to Compound, closing its last loan on Tuesday, as reported by CoinDesk.
As a result, the firm was able to reclaim almost $1.4 billion in tokens, mostly held in the form of wrapped bitcoin (wBTC) and a type of staked ether derivative (stETH).
Ryan Preston Dahl, a restructuring expert at the law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program that Celsius is going into “uncharted territory” in filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, because there has not been a precedent for a crypto brokerage “trying to navigate through a reorganization as opposed to a liquidation.”
UPDATE (July 14, 20:08 UTC): Added detail and background throughout.
CORRECT (July 15, 11:45 UTC): Corrects figure in first paragraph."
130,1136,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/18/crypto-carbon-credits-slapping-lipstick-on-a-pig/,Crypto Carbon Credits: Slapping Lipstick on a Pig,There are deeper issues with crypto’s greenification beyond the current market rout.,2022-07-18,"It might come as a surprise that one of crypto’s biggest “use cases” has been in combating climate change, considering the overall sentiment around blockchain’s environmental footprint and heavy energy consumption.
In just the last three months of 2021, some $3 billion worth of tokenized carbon credits were traded, accounting for hundreds of millions of metric tons of the greenhouse gas, according to The Wall Street Journal, citing KlimaDAO data.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
In the first six months of this year, at least 23 million carbon credits were moved on-chain from centralized registries, representing about a quarter of credits listed at the time, according to data provider Trove Research.
Then there’s the $423 million that venture capitalists have invested in crypto-based carbon tracking initiatives over the past 18 months.
See also: Crypto Carbon: Can Blockchain Networks Fix Carbon Offsets? | Opinion
Despite this measurable market growth, a big win for those looking to disrupt and democratize the sclerotic world of carbon offsetting, the industry is facing something of an existential crisis. And maybe it’s better to let it die.
This weekend, the WSJ reported that Flowcarbon, the buzzy blockchain project founded by discredited ex-WeWork CEO Adam Neumann and backed by crypto powerhouse Andreessen Horowitz just two months ago, has indefinitely delayed the launch of its suite of products.
The Journal situated this news among a greater trend of high-profile crypto-climate startups that have “either slowed operations or delayed product rollouts” in recent months. This might be just deserts for those that saw Nuemann – who tried to trademark the word “we” – reinvent himself as a crypto-climate advocate and thought, “surely this must be a scam.”
Speaking with the Journal, Flowcarbon’s Chief Executive Dana Gibber said Neumann was not involved day to day and pointed to the crypto market downturn for the pause. (The Celo blockchain-based effort hoped to launch its goddess nature token (GNT) by the end of June, after raising about $70 million in a private presale advertised on its website.)
But there’s a larger issue at foot than a market rout: Last May, the standard-bearer of carbon credits, Verra, announced it would ban the conversion of retired credits into crypto tokens after finding that crypto upstarts were less than accountable. While this hasn’t affected all crypto carbon projects, it has been a major roadblock for many, and it casts doubt that blockchains can ever outrun the human-scale problems plaguing climate advocacy.
In theory, crypto provides a way to bring transparency and liquidity to mostly unregulated and voluntary carbon credit markets. There is no doubt that some of these claims are true, considering how fractured the current carbon credit industry is. But the overall effect is one of slapping lipstick on a pig.
Carbon credits are issued by firms that claim they are removing carbon-dioxide from the atmosphere, either by their business practices or more active conservation efforts like planting trees. While they could help incentivize or finance sustainable efforts, these assets are really just “offsets” that allow others to pollute.
As consumers demand more sustainable practices, companies are turning to carbon offsets for an easy PR win. Crypto exchanges Gemini and FTX, for instance, voluntarily buy credits because they profit indirectly from the energy-intensive proof-of-work process used by the two largest blockchains, Ethereum and Bitcoin. But they are hardly alone in greenwashing.
No amount of market efficiency magic can fix this high-level issue. Crypto can certainly help prevent the “double spending” of carbon credits, can increase access to these markets and even help resolve some of the “governance” issues that have plagued the industry for decades. But isn’t that accelerating what Greenpeace called “a distraction from the real solutions to climate change”?
At worst, crypto carbon credits are a waste of effort and, literally, energy. One of the projects affected by Verra’s hardstop, KlimaDAO, demonstrated this after “sweeping the floor” of old carbon credits hoping to raise the price of polluting.
See also: Will Reality Have Its Revenge on Andreessen Horowitz's Giant New Crypto Fund? | Opinion
The strategy actually worked; it took 5% of Verra’s carbon credits out of circulation by locking them in a treasury (what it called a “black hole”) thereby increasing the cost of carbon credits. However, critics were quick to note that many of the credits it purchased were from retired or dormant projects – so not actually sucking carbon out of the atmosphere.
That’s not quite as wasteful as restarting formerly mothballed coal power plants to mine bitcoin but is resurfacing carbon at least indirectly.
Again, many of the issues that plague crypto carbon credits are simply inherent to the overall market. There’s no consensus about how to value these assets or what makes a green project green. There’s also little oversight that ensures projects are doing what they promise.
“Proponents of blockchain celebrate its capacity for transparency. But if this power is wielded only on tracing transactions, not the details of what’s being transacted or by whom, we’ve missed a trick – especially in such a heterogeneous market,” Sarah Leugers of Gold Standard wrote in a Carbon Pulse op-ed.
It’s also hard to see how some of the promises of blockchain will play out, like the hope that it could make these assets “interoperable.” The issue here is that carbon credits are usually issued by individual companies or projects and sometimes brokers, making a uniform standard difficult.
While it’s possible for there to be “atomic swaps” and cross-chain assets, at this point there’s little indication that these crypto projects alone will become interoperable, let alone harmonize the entire market.
In fact, one major criticism of crypto’s role in carbon markets has been increased market confusion – stemming from the increasing number of players and having to check whether an asset is live on-chain.
That said, Verra hasn’t soured entirely on crypto-based carbon credits, and except for the most ardent critics, many see the potential for blockchain’s transparency for this industry. Both crypto and combating climate change are decades-long processes, and it’s likely that innovation and reinvention will come.
But, at this stage, much like Adam Neumann’s reinvention of real estate/the office/climate advocacy, this is a hollow effort."
131,1137,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/19/first-mover-asia-btc-spikes-over-228k-dappradars-complicated-valuation-model-and-the-difficulties-of-assessing-nfts/,First Mover Asia: BTC Spikes Over $22.8K; DappRadar’s Complicated Valuation Model and the Difficulties of Assessing NFTs,Bitcoin and major altcoins continued their late weekend rally; NFTs are an asset class where value has yet to be clearly defined.,2022-07-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin rises over $22.8K; ether soars past $1.6K on Merge optimism.
Insights: DappRadar has a complicated valuation model that does not adequately account for the true value of NFTs, say critics.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,896 +9.6%
Ether (ETH): $1,618 +19.7%
S&P 500: 3,830 -0.8%
DJIA: 31,072 -0.6%
Nasdaq: 11,360 -0.8%
Gold: $1,709 -.08%
Bitcoin Rises Over $22.8K; Ether Soars Past $1.6K
Bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies continued their late Sunday rally, soaring past $22,800 at one point in Monday trading amid a mini-revival of investor optimism about the global economy, central bank monetary tightening and the Ethereum Merge later this summer.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $22,896, up more than 9% over the past 24 hours. Bitcoin is now perched above the $18,000 to $22,000 range it has held since mid-June roughly when crypto trading platform Celsius Network announced it was halting withdrawals and Coinbase (COIN) and a number of digital asset companies said they were cutting jobs.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, fared even better, recently climbing more than 19% over the previous day to trade at roughly $1,600. Markets continue to look hopefully at the Ethereum blockchain's Merge transition from a more energy-intensive proof-of-work to a more environmentally friendly proof-of-stake protocol. Other major altcoins assumed various shades of green, mostly on the deeper side, with ETC and SAND up over 13% and 10%, respectively, at one point.
Still, market observers were wary of sounding too upbeat, given the months-long backdrop of rising inflation, central bank uncertainty and the looming prospect of recession.
""I'm bullish in the near term of like a week or two, but after that you have to be cautious because you still have all these macroeconomic headwinds,"" Hassan Bassiri, vice president, portfolio management for asset management firm Arca, told CoinDesk. ""And you still have no new capital flowing into the space. It's just us trading against each other.""
Cryptos tracked the general direction of stocks, which rose early before falling in the afternoon, although major equity indexes finished slightly in the red for the day with the tech-focused Nasdaq and S&P 500 dropping 0.8%. The declines came largely after iPhone and computer manufacturer Apple (AAPL) announced it would ratchet back spending and hiring.
""This is a very interesting time in the market now,"" Bassiri said. ""When Apple news came out, the market immediately pulled back, so there's still a strong correlation with traditional markets. But crypto is starting to decouple on a short-term basis. So it's very challenging to say with a lot of competence what's going to happen because the market is very player versus player.""
Crypto bad news continues
Troublesome news continued to flow from the crypto industry. Crypto broker Genesis Global Trading, a CoinDesk sister company, has filed a $1.2 billion claim against the now insolvent crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, according to a 1,157-page court filing uploaded by bankruptcy trustee Teneo. The filing indicates that Genesis Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of Genesis Global, is seeking relief from Three Arrows regarding assets of $1.14 billion, as well as pledged AVAX and NEAR tokens worth a total of $91.3 million.
And court filings revealed that Celsius Network has a $1.2 billion hole (at minimum) in its balance sheet – the company has $5.5 billion in liabilities ($4.7 billion of which represents customer holdings) and only $4.3 billion in assets, much of which is illiquid. Though the company has already begun to make good on its debt to institutional creditors, retail investors have been left in the dark and will likely bear the brunt of Celsius’ failing.
Bassiri said that the rally over the past day stemmed from an Ethereum short squeeze. ""If the market structure is such that people are shorting and you can start a short squeeze against them, that can start triggering momentum algos (algorithms) and additional buyers,"" he noted. ""You're continuing to see that today.""
He added: ""Ether has a real reason to move because it has a catalyst coming.""
DappRadar's Complicated Valuation Model
Non-fungible tokens (NFT) are a tough asset class to value. As we’ve discussed before, there just isn’t a universally accepted way to value NFTs; three different services gave three different results when trying to value Three Arrows’ Starry Night collection.
NFT Twitter wants to see the value of their collective bag of JPGs hit the moon, so they weren’t happy that CoinDesk used DappRadar’s numbers to value Starry Night’s wallet at less than $5 million.
All sorts of accusations flew on Twitter about DappRadar’s methodology, so who better to talk to about how DappRadar actually works than Pedro Herrera, the company’s head of research, and Sarunas Simaitis, a consultant who works with the company in developing Machine Learning initiatives.
“I think the biggest challenge to any modeling of NFT valuations are opinions,” Simaitis said. “People have a lot of opinions about what the valuations should be and what there actually is. They confuse two things: prices and values, a lot.”
The two explained that DappRadar uses a machine learning regression algorithm that goes through all the historic sales as well as metadata and estimates a price of the NFT through interpolation.
While this might be seen as a prediction, it is more an interpolation of market and time with a consistent price retrieved via artificial intelligence (AI), DappRadar said in an email briefing. The result of the price interpolation is used as the valuation.
“[The model] starts to draw a line between metadata price and previous sales to estimate the potential market value of an NFT,” Herrera said. “It also starts to see how different is its estimate from the price from the previous sales, so it starts to adjust.”
Difficulties in estimating prices
And the reality is that estimating the price is difficult because it's a new asset class, and each collection has different characteristics.
“For example, one has the utility; the other one is more like a social exclusive club, so how do you really evaluate that? It's a challenge, but at a high level this is how it works,” Herrera said.
One thing the model looks out for is outlier events that would move the value of the market, such as last year’s record-setting Christie’s auction for a CryptoPunk and a Bored Ape.
“That's a type of sale that our model is, by design, designed to interpret poorly because that's a market-changing event,” Herrera said.
Because of the outlier nature of the sale, it would be weighted at a lower rating of importance to other market data.
But even as the crypto market slowly recovers from last month’s crash, DappRadar is still seeing interest from traders in the asset class – albeit the mentality has changed. Now, there’s a liquidity crunch in the sector, the DappRadar team says, because everyone is buying and holding, not selling, with the belief there are brighter days for valuations.
“I think looking at liquidity can give you a bit of a short-sighted view,” Simaitis said, because so many traders are waiting things out.
So the valuations of the bear market of 2022 just aren’t going to be the same as the good times of 2021. But, at the same time, will these values hold when the speculation dies?
“NFTs now, just like all assets, have two values: They have the fundamental value and the speculative value,” added Simaitis. “People actually don't know what that fundamental value is.”
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Minutes from monetary policy meeting of the Reserve Bank of Australia
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): Speech by Michele Bullock, assistant governor (Financial System) at the Reserve Bank of Australia
4 p.m. HKT/SGT(8 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank lending survey
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Chris Giancarlo on First Hearing in Celsius Bankruptcy Case; Ethereum Merge Update
Celsius Network revealed how it plans to protect customers as it prepares for its first hearing in New York bankruptcy court. Former Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Chris Giancarlo joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the Celsius case, the digital dollar project and more. Also, why are bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) prices rising? GlobalBlock CEO Rufus Round joined the markets discussion. Plus, Mahin Gupta, founder of a prominent India-based crypto exchange, shared his perspective on the state of the crypto industry.
Celsius Bankruptcy Filings Hint Retail Customers Will Bear Brunt of its Failure: The New Jersey-based crypto lender has a $1.2 billion hole in its balance sheet and will likely struggle to pay back its customers and creditors.
Genesis Global Issued $2.36B in Undercollateralized Loans to Three Arrows Capital: Three Arrows, the crypto hedge fund, is now insolvent.
‘Crypto and DeFi Won’t Disappear’: Hong Kong Monetary Chief: Hong Kong Monetary Authority CEO Eddie Yue tells a G20 meeting that crypto and decentralized finance will remain significant forces.
The 'Merge Trade' Has Begun, Experts Say, as Ether Surges and stETH Discount Narrows: ""ETH has undergone a rapid change in narrative over the past week, with speculators purely focused on the upcoming 'merge' as a catalyst for appreciation,"" one observer said.
Indian Finance Minister Echoes Central Bank's Crypto Ban Call but Says Global Collaboration Is Required: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made her comment in answer to a series of written questions from a member of parliament about cryptocurrency legislation.
The Fed Can't Whip Inflation Alone: The source of high U.S. inflation is pretty clear, and it doesn't have much to do with the money supply.
Other Voices: Crypto Is Crashing. Where Were the Regulators?
""Excited to announce Meow's $22m Series A led by Tiger Global, with participation from @QEDInvestors, @FTX_Official, & more. 🐱🐯 @JoinMeow's conservative yield offering for corporates got us here. Earn up to 4% on your corporate treasury."" (Meow founder Brandon Arvanaghi/Twitter) ... ""The preservation of bank and non-bank dollar digital currency issuance promotes competition, a level playing field, and rules-based upgrades in the financial system."" (Payment service provider Circle from its recently released stablecoin policy principles/CoinDesk)"
132,1130,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/19/celsius-lays-out-mining-focused-reorganization-plan-at-first-bankruptcy-hearing/,Celsius Lays Out Mining-Focused Reorganization Plan at First Bankruptcy Hearing,The first day hearing revealed Celsius is betting big on its also-indebted mining operation to help fill the $1.2 billion hole in the company’s balance sheet.,2022-07-19,"Crypto lender Celsius has half a million creditors owed more than $5 billion, attorneys for the company said during its first bankruptcy hearing Monday.
News of Celsius’ liquidity crisis broke on June 12, when the company announced it was pausing all customer withdrawals, citing “extreme market conditions.” The company formally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the Bankruptcy Court of the Southern District of New York (SDNY) last week.
The situation at Celsius is not unique: The lender is one of several that have been hit hard by the Terra/LUNA crash, the insolvency of Three Arrows Capital and the ongoing market downturn.
Struggling crypto lender BlockFi received a $250 million bailout from crypto exchange FTX in order to fulfill customer withdrawal requests – and could be acquired by FTX for as little as $240 million more. Less than three weeks after Celsius halted its withdrawals, Voyager Digital followed suit, before it also filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in SDNY on July 6.
Court filings paint a concerning picture for Celsius’ creditors, most of whom are average retail investors. The company has an enormous $1.2 billion hole in its balance sheet (at least) – and retail depositors who held their crypto in Celsius accounts will likely be the last to get paid.
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, also called a “reorganization bankruptcy,” pauses any attempts at civil litigation from creditors, and allows the company time to get its finances in order to repay its debts.
Documents filed to the Southern District by the company’s law firm Kirkland & Ellis show that Celsius is deeply insolvent.
Read more: Looking at the Claims Celsius Operated Like a Ponzi
Leading up to declaring bankruptcy, Celsius saw its digital asset holdings dwindle to a mere $1.7 billion as of July 14, down from $14.6 billion since the end of March. The documents also show that Celsius owes $4.7 billion to its customers, almost three times what it holds in digital assets.
Celsius also holds $170 million in cash held in a bank, but the rest of the assets are tied up in mining equipment ($720 million), outstanding loans ($620 million) and other assets ($450 million). The documents also somehow account for $600 million in the platform’s CEL token, a much higher value than the total market capitalization of the coin. (The CEL token faces regulatory scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission.)
The firms claimed that most of the drop was due to the collapse in crypto prices, shrinking its assets by $12.3 billion.
The rest of the losses added up as:
Users withdrew $1.9 billion from deposits up until June 12, the date when the company suspended withdrawals.
Loan redemptions and liquidations reduced the firm's assets by another $1.9 billion.
Tether, the issuer of the largest stablecoin, USDT, in the market and also an investor in Celsius, set back the firm by an additional $900 million when it liquidated a loan to Celsius. (Tether issued a statement about the liquidation.)
And the firm also lost $100 million from investments.
Another document filed for the court listed the crypto lender's “unanticipated losses to the business.""
Namely, the Ethereum staking platform StakeHound lost access to 35,000 ETH ($50 million at current prices) that Celsius deposited on the platform to earn a yield “due to an alleged error by StakeHound’s third-party crypto custody provider Fireblocks.”
StakeHound and Fireblocks are currently involved in litigation over the matter.
A private lender, reportedly the Indianapolis-based lending platform EquitiesFirst, failed to return the collateral of a loan Celsius paid off and owes $439 million to Celsius.
Celsius admitted it also lost about $15.8 million in Terra’s collapse, but the “widespread and completely misleading Twitter and social media commentary,” as the company’s legal advisor said during today’s hearing, prompted a run on its deposits in the first place.
Monday’s hearing – as well as a host of court documents, including a 61-page declaration from CEO Alex Mashinsky – indicate that much of Celsius’ plan to recoup its losses depends heavily on the projected future profits of its half-finished, wholly owned mining subsidiary, Celsius Mining.
However, that mining subsidiary is also a debtor. Lawyers for Celsius asked the court on Monday to approve over $5 million in spending to finish the construction of the mining center in Texas (which Celsius’ attorneys said would take approximately two more months), as well as pay duties on mining rigs “currently sitting with the customs authorities.”
Though Judge Martin Glenn, chief judge of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York, approved the request on an interim basis, the U.S. Trustee – the arm of the Department of Justice that oversees administration of bankruptcy cases– will ultimately hold the purse strings.
At Monday’s hearing, Shara Cornell, an attorney with the U.S. Trustee Program, voiced her concerns about the viability of Celsius’ mining operation.
“There’s one mining company that I don’t believe is currently operable, but has caused the debtor a considerable amount of money. I’m not clear if construction may or may not be the best avenue for the debtor at this time,” Cornell told the court. “Why not just consider liquidating it and move on?”
Celsius’ attorneys pushed back, claiming that Celsius’ operation already included more than 43,000 mining rigs, with plans to reach 112,000 mining rigs “sometime in Q2 of 2023.”
Pat Nash, Celsius’ lead attorney, told the court that the mining subsidiary was mining approximately 14.2 bitcoins (BTC) per day – and expected to mine 10,100 bitcoins in 2022.
“If everything goes well, in 2023 we hope and expect to be in a position to mine approximately 15,000 bitcoin a day,” Nash told the court (Nash presumably meant 15,000 bitcoins in the entire year, as only roughly 900 total bitcoins can currently be mined per day).
Even if Celsius’ promises to mine 10,100 this year are accurate (something that is difficult to independently verify), at current market prices that would yield approximately $225 million – only a fraction of what is needed to make Celsius’ solvent.
When Celsius begins to make good on its $5.5 billion in liabilities – $4.7 billion of which represents customer holdings – its customers will almost certainly be last to get their money back. And by then, there might not be any money left.
Read more: Celsius Bankruptcy Filings Hint Retail Customers Will Bear Brunt of Its Failure
“Celsius has set the stage for conflict between its customers and its sophisticated institutional investors,” Daniel Gwen, a business restructuring associate at New York-based law firm Ropes & Gray, told CoinDesk.
“In particular, Celsius has pointed out in its pleadings that customers transferred ownership of crypto assets to Celsius, making those customers unsecured creditors. This detail may undercut customer expectations, who thought they were depositing their assets into a construct similar to a traditional bank,” Gwen added.
Nash told the court on Monday that Celsius has approximately 500,000 depositors, 300,000 of which have more than $100 worth of crypto in their accounts.
Celsius’ attorneys asked the judge to redact names and other personally identifying information from Celsius’ creditor matrix and other documents, citing Celsius’ employees and corporate creditors’ fear for their personal safety.
“These cases have generated a lot of press and social media commentary. Certain employees have been receiving death threats and hate mail,” an attorney for Celsius told the court. “We received certain communications from scheduled corporate creditors stating that corporate principals have been receiving death threats and hate mail as well.”
The second hearing in Celsius’ bankruptcy proceedings will be held remotely on the morning of August 10.
The U.S. Trustee is currently in the process of forming and appointing a committee of creditors. These committees are typically made up of the seven largest unsecured creditors of the debtor, and help oversee the bankruptcy proceedings, investigate the debtor’s conduct and business operations, and help the court formulate a reorganization plan for the company’s debt."
133,1133,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/22/nexo-crypto-lender-on-prowl-for-ailing-rivals-faces-declining-deposits/,"Nexo, Crypto Lender on Prowl for Ailing Rivals, Faces Declining Deposits","An analysis of crypto lender Nexo's attestations, including older data retrieved using the Wayback Machine, reveals just how much its deposits have declined in recent months.",2022-07-22,"Crypto lender Nexo has positioned itself in recent months as a potential acquirer of ailing crypto firms.
But data posted on the website of an accounting firm contracted by Nexo to provide regular attestations on customer balances shows that the lender may have suffered from withdrawals similar to those that led to troubles at rivals.
The firm's customer liabilities – the value of digital assets users deposited on the platform – declined to $3.9 billion as of Thursday, down from $6.9 billion on May 12, based on the real-time attestations provided by Armanino LLP. CoinDesk obtained data on the prior time period by accessing the Wayback Machine, a tool that records earlier versions of websites for posterity. Nexo is a private company, so its financial statements aren't publicly available.
The drop in the customer liabilities works out to about a 44% decrease. During that time, bitcoin's (BTC) price fell by about 20%, and the price of ether (ETH), the second-biggest cryptocurrency, was down 22%. So market factors may account for some of the drop.
Customer liabilities expressed in bitcoin terms, which helps filter out the fluctuation in crypto prices, fell to 169,672 BTC from 261,111 BTC – a 35% drop over the same period.
“It's very natural behavior, given the state of the market,"" said Vetle Lunde, an analyst at the crypto research firm Arcane Research who conducted and published his own assessment of the Nexo data earlier in the week. ""Nexo users are cautious given the shaky market conditions and the bankruptcies affiliated with other big retail-oriented crypto lending platforms.”
A Nexo spokesperson told CoinDesk that the outflows from the platform “are proportional to the volatility in the space” and are considered “relatively normal for such a bumpy time” in the crypto market.
“They are nothing Nexo hasn't seen before during previous periods of volatility like the 2020 COVID panic,” the spokesperson added.
This year's crash in crypto prices has rattled nerves of retail depositors while also saddling big industry players with losses on assets they had lent out in search of yields. Celsius Network, a crypto lender, and Voyager, a crypto trading platform, each froze withdrawals and later declared bankruptcy. Another distressed lender, BlockFi, received a credit lifeline from crypto exchange FTX, which later gained an option to acquire the firm at a steep discount.
Nexo has so far avoided such drastic moves and appears to have sidestepped some of the worst debacles. The platform managed to avoid headlines in the multibillion-dollar crash of the Terra blockchain and also steered clear of the implosion of the crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital.
""As you may have read from Three Arrows Capital's reveal, Nexo's name was not among those exposed,"" the Nexo spokesperson said.
Nexo says it lends funds on a strictly overcollateralized basis, a practice that provides protection in case a borrower defaults on the loan.
The Nexo spokesperson emphasized to CoinDesk that ""at any moment Nexo's assets under management exceed its obligations, meaning we are stable and able to provide clients with their funds at any time.""
Nexo has been vocal about looking to capitalize on the weakness of competitors, characterizing itself as a consolidator in the crypto lending space. The firm hired banking giant Citigroup to advise it on deals to acquire other crypto lenders.
When Nexo announced an offer last month to buy assets from Celsius, the offer was formalized in a letter sent from an entity called Nexo AG in Zug, Switzerland. At the time, executives told CoinDesk that Nexo’s operations were based out of Sofia, Bulgaria. According to the spokeswoman, the company is based in London.
Earlier this month, Nexo signed a term sheet to acquire Vauld, an ailing crypto lending platform backed by Peter Thiel and Coinbase Ventures that halted withdrawals, cut jobs and looks to restructure. Earlier this month, Vauld filed for protection from creditors in Singapore.
""The Nexo and Vauld teams are in constant contact surrounding the former's potential acquisition of Vauld,"" the spokesperson said. ""Our team was aware of the filing and that it would in no way affect our ability to conduct our due diligence, and if everything checks out, proceed with an acquisition.
“Nexo has an expansive war chest for such deals and does not use clients' funds for such activity in any way.”
Fewer deposits on Nexo “may have second-order effects, in this instance impacting Nexo's revenue"" from lending, Arcane's Lunde said.
The platform’s utility token, nexo (NEXO), is down 80% this year, currently trading at 70 cents.
UPDATE (22 July, 17:33 UTC): Adds comment from Nexo's spokesperson."
134,1131,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/25/first-mover-asia-btc-falls-below-224k-coinbase-shares-remain-alluring-for-institutional-investors/,First Mover Asia: BTC Falls Below $22.4K; Coinbase Shares Remain Alluring for Institutional Investors,"Cathie Wood’s Ark Invest, ETF issuer Exchange Traded Concepts, Cullinan Associates and Utah-based Refined Wealth Management all significantly added COIN to their portfolios as per June 30 filings.",2022-07-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin trades sideways on Sunday but drops below $22.4K.
Insights: Crypto exchange Coinbase's shares have plunged this year, but several institutional investors have been snapping up shares.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,318 -1%
Ether (ETH): $1,560 -0.3%
Bitcoin Falls Below $22.4K; Other Cryptos Drop
Bitcoin traded sideways on Sunday to fall below $22,400, well off mid-week highs.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading around $22,300, down a percentage point over the previous 24 hours. Bitcoin had reached a more than one-month high on Wednesday, cracking $24,000, and was still trading comfortably over $23,000 early Friday before investors revisited their anxieties over inflation and the economy to back away from riskier assets.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading at $1,560, also down slightly for the same period. Other cryptos were largely in the red, with YGG and AXS both off more than 7%. The crypto Fear & Greed Index has improved over the past two weeks, but remains in fear territory, reflecting deep concerns about conditions potentially affecting crypto.
To be sure, market observers have viewed bitcoin's recent tenacity above $22,000 positively amid an unexpectedly high consumer price index (CPI) this month, slowing economic indicators and poor earnings. But crypto markets this week also struggled to make sense of Tesla's (TSLA) decision to jettison $936 million of its bitcoin holdings, the latest pivot in company founder and crypto influencer Elon Musk's ever-changing relationship with digital assets. Bitcoin has increasingly responded to the wider environment, including stock prices, which have plummeted this year.
""BTC did see some positive price action following its resilience, post the CPI data earlier this month,"" wrote Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, in an email to CoinDesk. ""The fact that news of Tesla selling its BTC holdings did not crash the price is also a positive sign for the bulls.
FOMC meeting
Investors will now be eyeing this week's interest rate decision by the U.S. central bank's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). The FOMC is widely expected to approve a 75-basis point hike, robust enough to satisfy critics of Federal Reserve timidity in tackling inflation but reasonable enough to encourage those who prefer a more moderate approach that is less likely to spur a steep recession and affect assets.
""With this month's FOMC around the corner, we will be taking a conservative approach until the Fed's future direction becomes clearer,"" DiPasquale wrote.
Crypto declines tracked major equity indexes on Friday as the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell nearly 2% and the S&P 500, which has a heavy tech component, dropped almost a percentage point. Stocks, like cryptos though, had their best week in a while after months of losses. Gold rose slightly, although it has also steadily fallen from March highs over $2,000.
In a weekly review to investors, First Republic Bank noted weakening in the once-hot housing market, a sign that rising interest rates may finally taking a bite from demand. The National Association of Home Builders index dropped for a seventh straight month. U.S. housing starts in June were also unexpectedly weak, among other falling indicators.
Three Arrows Capital
Meanwhile, the founders of insolvent crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, Su Zhu and Kyle Davies, described the firm's collapse as ""regrettable,"" but denied claims they pulled money from the fund before its collapse, according to Bloomberg report. Three Arrows' implosion stemmed from the fall Terra ecosystem that has rippled through the industry since May. Investors are claiming Three Arrows still owes them $2.8 billion.
Yet in a report, banking giant Citi said that crypto contagion fears tied to recent events, including digital asset lending platform Celsius' failing, have peaked. Staked ether’s discount to ether (ETH) has narrowed, which suggests some liquidity stress may have passed, the report said, adding that the “acute deleveraging phase” has now ended given many of the large brokers and market makers in the sector have disclosed their exposures. In a further positive sign, stablecoin outflows have been stemmed, the bank said, and outflows from crypto exchange-traded funds (ETF) have also stabilized in recent weeks.
DiPasquale wrote that ""if the Fed remains aggressive"" with rate hikes, ""we could easily see BTC return to $20,000 or lower."" But he added optimistically that ""accumulation in that range could be a promising long-term opportunity.""
S&P 500: 3,961 -0.9%
DJIA: 31,899 -0.4%
Nasdaq: 11,834 -1.8%
Gold: $1,727 +0.4
Coinbase's Enduring Allure Among Institutional Investors
Coinbase’s stock is down nearly 70% on the year, outpacing the declines of bitcoin. While many funds have used the onset of the bear market to reduce their stake in the exchange, there are also many institutional investors that have used the chance to acquire shares for what they perceive as a discount.
According to data compiled by Whale Wisdom, which tracks quarterly filings of the form 13F that discloses fund managers’ new investments, Cathie Wood’s Ark Invest, exchange-traded fund issuer Exchange Traded Concepts, Cullinan Associates and Utah-based Refined Wealth Management all significantly added COIN to their portfolios as per filings dated June 30.
Ark Invest’s Wood has been a long-time Coinbase bull, highlighting in May that the U.S.-based exchange had no exposure to either the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin or the luna (LUNA) token.
“Given its inherent profitability, competitive position and massive opportunities, we believe the company is right to focus on investing in its derivatives offerings, [non-fungible token] platform and international expansion,” Wood wrote in a note outlining her bullish thesis on the company.
2.6 million shares
Whale Wisdom data shows that all firms that filed a 13F by June 30 collectively bought 2.6 million shares.
The Wall Street Journal said that 14 analysts it polled gave Coinbase a buy option for retail investors while nine gave it a hold, and two ranked it a sell.
The average stock target price from the polled analysts is $106.05, which would give it a $23 billion market cap.
Before the company did its initial public offering last year, its pre-IPO contracts were trading as high as $317, which would give the exchange a valuation of over $75 billion. Its current market cap is just under $20 billion. Even under the most conservative appraisals, there’s room to grow.
Australia new home sales
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): Chicago Fed national activity index (June)
10:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(2:30 p.m. UTC): Dallas Fed manufacturing business index (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Three Arrows Founders Break Their Silence; SEC Calls 9 Cryptos ‘Securities’ in Insider Trading Case
""First Mover"" dove into the biggest stories of the day. CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Jodie Gunzberg shared her insights as bitcoin (BTC) topped $23,000. Plus, former prosecutor Ian McGinley joined to discuss the fallout after a former Coinbase employee was arrested over allegations of crypto insider trading.
Silvergate CEO Sees More Near-Term Pain for Crypto but Still Bullish on Bitcoin Lending: Silvergate posted strong second-quarter earnings, outperforming its crypto peers’ due to strong risk management.
FTX to Offer Early Liquidity to Customers of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager: The crypto exchange will allow the customers to create accounts funded by an early distribution of a part of their bankruptcy claims.
Bank of Central African States Urged to Introduce Common Digital Currency: Report: The regional bank is a staunch critic of the Central African Republic's decision to make bitcoin legal tender in April.
Nexo, Crypto Lender on Prowl for Ailing Rivals, Faces Declining Deposits: An analysis of crypto lender Nexo's attestations, including older data retrieved using the Wayback Machine, reveals just how much its deposits have declined in recent months.
Three Arrows Capital Founders Say Terra, GBTC Trades Led to Fund Blowup: Report: “What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effectively zero,” Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu said.
Does Crypto Still Care About Elon Musk?: Tesla’s initial BTC purchase contributed to a wild, two-year price climb. But markets were unphased after the car company offloaded most of its bitcoin.
Other voices: 1. The many lives of cryptocurrency (Axios)
""Tesla’s bitcoin sale, for all the caveats about freeing up cash, confirms what some of us knew all along: Elon Musk isn’t someone you should look to for guidance on cryptocurrency. He’s just a particularly loud, impulsive and unreliable follower."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""We need to take this action to address the mismatch between our available assets and liabilities caused by the individual who breached his contract with us. It may take some time before we can recover funds owed to us in the litigation actions we are taking against this individual."" (CoinFLEX blog)"
135,1135,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/25/why-sports-and-crypto-getting-together-is-a-win-win/,Why Sports and Crypto Getting Together Is a Win-Win,"As those in crypto look to get the masses on board through sports advertising, teams could benefit from those associations with younger fans. This article is part of ""Sports Week.""",2022-07-25,"Cryptocurrency is the fastest-growing sponsorship category in sports advertising for a reason.
The crypto industry adds immense value for leagues, franchises and athletes worldwide. In turn, leagues, franchises and professional athletes are looking to connect with younger audiences, like GenZers and millennials, an elusive and critical demographic for the sports industry that crypto has in spades.
And so, sports and crypto tie-ups are a win-win.
Simon Yu is CEO of StormX, a crypto exchange that sponsors the Portland Trail Blazers U.S. professional basketball team. This article is part of CoinDesk's ""Sports Week.""
Globally, sports sponsorship is a $40 billion industry. More than $3 billion has been spent on sports sponsorships in the past year alone – increasingly by crypto firms.
It may not seem like an obvious place for audience overlap, but crypto brands are using the massive reach of sports to grow awareness of a relatively new industry. Through sponsorships – such as Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange's logo on baseball umpire shirts and in ads during the Super Bowl – brands can meet people where they are.
The crypto industry is seeking to humanize what can feel like a complex and intimidating technology to the average person just getting started. When a recognizable athlete endorses a product, whether it's Wheaties cereal, Gatorade sports drinks or a pair of shoes, consumers are more inclined to try that brand.
For people already using that product, their decision feels validated and, in so doing, brand loyalty increases. In fact, celebrity endorsement can cause the value of stocks to rise and increase sales by about 4%.
Likewise, attracting young viewers is mission critical for the major sports leagues. GenZers, having grown up during the past 15 years with a smartphone in their hands and continuous internet connection, are the prototypical digital native. They are avid gamers, social media users and crypto enthusiasts.
But only 23% of Gen Z said they were passionate sports fans. Comparing this with the 42% of millennials, 33% of Generation Xers, and 31% of baby boomers, it's obvious why the GenZ category is such an important one for the sports industry. They are the future.
GenZers are more likely to believe that crypto is the future. In fact, 94% of crypto buyers are in the Gen Z/millennial cohorts. They inherently understand the digital world and that a digital currency native to the internet, such as crypto, is inevitable. They see the old way as just that, past its prime and outdated.
In other words, by associating themselves with crypto through these partnerships, the sports industry is signaling they ""get"" the younger generation. It's a way for them to on-board the next fan base that is so critical to the industry's future success.
And athletes are doing the same. Too many pros to count are using crypto in new and creative ways as to grow and monetize their personal brands. They're using social tokens, launching non-fungible tokens and signing ad deals with the hottest crypto firms.
For crypto brands, the sports industry provides the opportunity to deliver a wider audience within the demographic that digital asset players in the space want to reach. When in sponsorship deals, they can be extremely effective in building and retaining customer interest, loyalty and trust. This type of trust building happens incrementally.
Of course, sports sponsorships don't come without vocal and vituperative critics. But that's to be expected.
Crypto is criticized for its environmental impact, and for the retail speculation that sometimes hurts small-time traders. Sports teams are sometimes called out for contributing to the mania around crypto investing.
Mark Cuban, the billionaire trader, crypto enthusiast and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, responded to this in an interview with The Athletic.
""Facebook, Amazon and Apple have lost more in market cap than the entire crypto market. A ton of tech companies have lost 80% or more of their value. I don't see anyone questioning sponsorships by those companies,"" Cuban said. He has a point.
Moreover, although it's not perfect, leagues and franchises do vet potential advertisers (i.e., reviewing company financials, conducting character assessments of those in leadership and more). At the end of the day, both parties want to ensure that they will have long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships.
In some sense, criticism of crypto-sports tie-ups is proof these sponsorships are working. They are a catalyst for a conversation, a crypto ice breaker. Like any nascent technology, there is a learning curve. That curve might be a little steep but it's a natural process."
136,1129,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/25/first-mover-asia-is-dex-efficiency-a-threat-to-coinbase-long-term-bitcoin-sinks-below-22k/,First Mover Asia: Is DEX Efficiency a Long-Term Threat to Coinbase; Bitcoin Sinks Below $22K,Coinbase’s revenue dwarfs that of the decentralized exchange Uniswap but the two companies are generating roughly the same trading volume; ether plunges.,2022-07-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin trades down again on the eve of the July U.S. central bank meeting.
Insights: Do DEXs have a brighter future than Coinbase's?
●Bitcoin (BTC): $21,573 −4.7%
●Ether (ETH): $1,467 −8.4%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,966.84 +0.1%
●Gold: $1,717 per troy ounce −0.6%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.82% +0.04
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Falls on Eve of FOMC Meeting; Ether Declines
By James Rubin
All eyes on the great and powerful Fed.
As investors began their countdown toward a 75 basis point interest rate hike that the U.S. central bank is widely expected to announce later this week, they continued to back off riskier assets, pushing bitcoin well below $22,000 for the first time in a week.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $21,6000, down nearly 5% for the past 24 hours. Bitcoin began to sink early Monday (UTC time) as investors renewed fretting about the Federal Reserve and other central banks' ability to tame inflation without throwing the economy into a steep recession. Bitcoin has fallen four consecutive days since topping $24,000 last Wednesday and inspiring hopes that it had bottomed out.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap after bitcoin, was recently changing hands under $1,500, off more than 8% during the same period and well off its most recent high above $1,600. Other major altcoins were also swimming in red, with AVAX and MATIC both off over 10% at one point.
""Cryptocurrencies are broadly weaker as investors await [a Federal Open Market Committee] decision that will likely conclude with a 75 basis point rate increase and reaffirm a commitment to fighting inflation,"" wrote Oanda Senior Analyst Americas Edward Moya in an email, although he added, ""Rising geopolitical tensions might provide some underlying support for the dollar, which could drag down risk appetite, which would weigh on cryptos.""
Stocks and earnings
Crypto's decline veered somewhat from equity indexes, which traded sideways on Monday. The tech-focused Nasdaq dropped a few fractions of a percentage point but the S&P 500, which has a heavy tech component, declining slightly. The traditional safe-haven investment gold also dropped a few ticks, following its gradual downturn of the past few months.
Aside from monetary policy, investors will also be eyeing earnings from Amazon (AMZN), Alphabet (GOOG) and Facebook parent company Meta Platforms (FB) to gauge the severity and speed of the expected economic contraction. They are hoping the pace will be gradual, an at least somewhat soft landing that would suggest the Fed has made progress taming inflation.
Monday also offered its latest twist on one of the debacles that is likely to haunt the crypto industry for at least the near future with lawyers representing bankrupt crypto lender Voyager Digital calling a proposal by FTX to offer early liquidity to Voyager customers a ""low-ball bid dressed up as a white knight rescue"" that only benefits FTX. Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection earlier this month. And troubled cryptocurrency exchange Zipmex said it has received an investment offer from an interested party.
A few up signs
Not all signs pointed downward. As CoinDesk Senior Markets Reporter Omkar Godbole reported, bitcoin's Monday plunge came even as Chicago Board of Options Exchange's volatility index (VIX), a measure known as Wall Street's fear gauge, slipped to 22.41 in early Asian hours, its lowest level since April 21, indicating calm ahead of the Fed decision. Meanwhile, layer 1 blockchain Aptos Labs, which is made up of former employees from Meta, raised $150 million in a Series A funding round that was led by FTX Ventures.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Eric Chen, co-founder of the decentralized finance (DeFi) exchange Injective Protocol, said that the Fed's likely 75 basis point increase had relieved markets who had been fearful of harsher medicine. ""Overall, the market is in a more optimistic spot than it was a week or two ago,"" he said.
Do DEXs Have a Brighter Future Than Coinbase?
By Sam Reynolds
In 2021, when Coinbase listed its stock, the exchange described a distant but real threat in the form for registering a stock listing.
Decentralized exchanges (DEX).
Then, DEXs were a minor headache, a problem that could be ignored but not an existential threat. Now, they have evolved into something that’s scraping away an entire customer segment. Let’s consider why.
Declining value
Coinbase is cash-rich, has no exposure to Celsius Network, Three Arrows Capital or Voyager Digital, and still is an appealing stock pick for institutional investors. Granted, its stock's value has declined faster than the price of bitcoin, but there are other reasons for that involving regulatory premiums. These aren’t the problems.
The current bear market means there are natural dark, stormy clouds over Coinbase: The enthusiasm for bitcoin at $21,000 just isn’t what it was at the base of the bull market in early 2021.
But even this isn’t the reason why there’s concern within Coinbase.
Equal volume
Data from Kaiko shows that Uniswap, a decentralized exchange, now has almost equal volume to Coinbase.
Uniswap and Coinbase now have nearly equal daily volumes.

27% in January--> 49% today. pic.twitter.com/DmqLjiocoP
Coinbase does $1.2 billion in daily volume versus Uniswap’s $1.14 billion. Kaiko chalks this up to a significant drop in Ethereum network fees and the growing role DEXs play in stablecoin swaps.
In all, Coinbase was able to push $7.8 billion in revenue in 2021. Uniswap generates $534 million. From this, Coinbase has a net margin of 32.8% (which is still higher than Nasdaq’s net margin of 19.25%).
The gap in these numbers may appear huge, but the major issue is efficiency. Coinbase has a headcount of just over 3,700. Uniswap has a headcount of 53.
Although trading volume is getting close to equivalency, the difference in revenue is a product of how the exchanges are structured. DEXs must pay their liquidity providers that enable each trade to happen, from 0.05% for high-volume pairs to between 0.3% and 1% for pairs without the same volume.
Different products
While Uniswap is nipping at one metric of Coinbase’s, these are also two different products. Coinbase’s entire existence is predicated on the ease of onboarding retail investors and enabling them to trade. It does offer some advanced features, but it isn’t aiming to be what Uniswap is.
Likewise, Uniswap isn’t a user-friendly platform and is not aiming to take on Coinbase’s primary market – retail. It's definitely a platform for power users.
But if retail decides to sit out the crypto recovery, and enters the market trepidatiously, Coinbase isn’t going to see its volume and revenue grow. If degens once again double down it will be Uniswap that’s pushing more volume.
So on the surface, some might say the two don’t really compete. But it was Coinbase that wrote this in its S-1 form:
“We compete against a growing number of decentralized and noncustodial platforms and our business may be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively against them,” the exchange wrote in its S-1. “Such platforms have low startup and entry costs as market entrants often remain unregulated and have minimal operating and regulatory costs.”
European Blockchain Conference – Barcelona
ECB forum on central banking
Federal Open Market Committee
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Is FTX’s High Stakes Offer a Good Deal for Voyager? Big Week Ahead in Markets
FTX and Voyager Digital battle it out publicly after FTX made an offer that the bankrupt crypto lender claims would be a bad deal for its customers. Bankruptcy expert Thomas Braziel of 507 Capital joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the latest developments in the case. With the Federal Reserve expected to announce another rate hike this week, and with Alphabet (GOOG), Amazon (AMZN) and Meta (FB) announcing corporate earnings, it's shaping up to be a big week in markets. Eric Chen, CEO of Injective Labs, joined the markets discussion. Plus, CoinDesk kicked off ""Sports Week"" with Simon Yu of StormX to discuss its company's partnership with pro basketball's Portland Trailblazers.
Bitcoin Drops Even as Wall Street's 'Fear Gauge' Indicates Calm Ahead of Fed Decision: ""I don't think the hawkish Fed trade has peaked,"" one observer said.
Aptos Labs Raises $150M in Funding Round Led by FTX Ventures: The team is looking to bring the Diem blockchain back to life.
Ken Moelis' Investment Bank Creates Group to Focus on Blockchain Deals: The New York bank, founded by Ken Moelis in 2007, is looking at crypto deals with more intent.
Meme Coin Teddy Doge 'Soft' Rug Pulls $4.5M Worth of Tokens, PeckShield Says: Prices of the TEDDY token fell some 99.7% in the past 24 hours.
How Attackers Stole Around $1.1M Worth of Tokens From Decentralized Music Project Audius: The sophisticated exploit involved attackers passing a malicious governance proposal by exploiting smart contracts.
Jason Calacanis Is Right About ‘Grifting’ Crypto VCs (but Confused): The famed podcaster and angel investor draws the line at naming his friends.
Other voices: How Wall Street Escaped the Crypto Meltdown (The New York Times)
""KuCoin has completed a strategic cooperation with Onchain Custodian, Singapore's crypto asset custody platform. Onchain Custodian will offer custody service for the safekeeping of KuCoin crypto assets. The custodial funds will be backed by Lockton, the world's largest private insurance brokerage company."" (KuCoin blog) ... ""In some sense, criticism of crypto-sports tie-ups is proof these sponsorships are working. They are a catalyst for a conversation, a crypto ice breaker. Like any nascent technology, there is a learning curve. That curve might be a little steep but it's a natural process."" (StormX CEO Simon Yu for CoinDesk's Sports Week)
And please sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context."
137,869,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/25/introducing-coindesks-sports-week/,Introducing CoinDesk's Sports Week,Subtitle not found,2022-07-25,"As Web3 has hit the mainstream this past year, it has brought sports and sports fans with it. Crypto companies like Crypto.com and FTX have pumped fortunes into naming stadiums and advertising behind home plate at baseball games. Crypto sponsorship dollars topped $200 million across the leading five pro sports leagues in the U.S, according to Axios. And that’s before you consider massive overseas markets, like the English Premier League in soccer, where startups are lining up to adorn jerseys and advertising hoardings.
This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.
The crypto industry promises new forms of engagement, handing fans the chance to participate in new types of quizzes, challenges and experiences. It also promises big money. Socios, which is working with many leading soccer clubs, told Premier League teams they could make an additional $180 from each fan token holder, a huge sum when many fans are already over-extended in outlays to their favorite clubs.
Meanwhile every major athlete, it seems, from Tom Brady to Megan Rapinoe has issued their own non-fungible tokens (NFT). Though, as reported by George Kaloudis, prices for these digital assets have fallen hard during the crash, there’s no lack of enthusiasm: NFTs give sports stars another way to engage with fan bases outside the control of teams or leagues.
Projects like Socios – arguably just a turbo-charged loyalty rewards scheme – are a glimpse of what’s possible. More ambitious are decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) for sports that could give fans a say over club management, player recruitment, the styling of sportswear and even ownership. Though DAOs haven’t yet bought a major pro sports team, there have been attempts (notably in the case of the National Football League's Denver Broncos), and, as Jeff Wilser details in a new feature, games like golf and yachting all have prominent DAO projects.
The big question going forward isn’t just how clubs and athletes can use Web3 to generate revenue and engage with fans. It’s what fans themselves might do with the technology to impact how sports is run. Few activities in life generate as much loyalty and excitement as sports. When participatory networks, like DAOs, harness that, the combination could be … game changing."
138,1139,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/26/10-crypto-sports-all-stars/,10 Crypto Sports All-Stars,"For each Crypto All-Star, we tried to calculate what you would have gained – or lost – if you invested $1,000 in the All-Star's chosen project at the time of his or her announcement. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.",2022-07-26,"“The Fed keeps printing trillions of dollars,” said the bitcoin advocate. “The best defense against inflation, I believe, is bitcoin, and they will keep printing money.”
The man spoke fluent crypto. He sounded like a speaker at a Bitcoin conference. And in fact he was a speaker at a Bitcoin conference. But he also happens to be future Hall of Fame Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, who’s one of CoinDesk’s inaugural Crypto Sports All-Stars.
This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.
It’s a solid roster. It’s packed with elite National Football League quarterbacks, tennis players and soccer players who all believe in the power of decentralized self-sovereign finance. We limited ourselves to 10, and the list is admittedly arbitrary – LeBron James would like a word – but it gives a sense of how deeply crypto has oozed into mainstream professional sports.
Oh, and as for the return on their crypto investment? For each Crypto All-Star, we tried to calculate what you would have gained – or lost – if you invested $1,000 in the All-Star's chosen project at the time of his or her announcement.
So let’s meet the team and size up your fortune!
Did Brady curse bitcoin? On May 9, 2021, with the price of bitcoin hovering around $58,000, the quarterback of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers added “laser eyes” to his Twitter avatar. The price then plunged to $30,000. “Alright the laser eyes didn’t work,” Brady admitted. “Anyone have any ideas?”
Yes, there were more ideas! He had the idea to use a flamethrower to thaw a block of ice with bitcoin inside. (That was in a commercial for crypto exchange FTX.)
He launched an NFT (non-fungible token) collection that sold out in under 10 minutes. He and his wife, Gisele, now have equity in FTX, and Brady co-founded NFT platform Autograph that raised a cool $170 million in January.
Perhaps most endearingly, after Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin claimed to not even know who Brady is, the football player tweeted, “What’s up Vitalik! You may not know me but just wanted to say I’m a big fan of yours.""
When you head to the website of fan token Socios.com, the first thing you see is a giant image of Argentine soccer player Lionel Messi’s bearded mug. He has a big smile and he’s proudly holding his phone to show the Socios app. Messi has good reason to smile: He signed a whopping $20 million deal to promote Socios, explaining that he wanted to “create a more connected and rewarding future for fans around the world.” It’s certainly a more rewarding future, or at least it is for him.
The tennis legend is more than just crypto-curious. At Bitcoin 2022 Conference in Miami, she revealed that she considers bitcoin a “super strong investment,” and her venture capital firm, Serena Ventures, has invested in a bitcoin rewards startup called Lolli, because she believes that “earning and owning bitcoin is a step towards financial inclusivity for all people.”
A throwback to the glorious wackiness of the 2017 initial coin offering craze. On Instagram, the legendary former boxer boldly announced to the world, “I’m gonna make a $hit t$n of money on August 2nd on the Stox.com ICO,” referring to an early prediction market project. The world was baffled. What the hell is an ICO? What’s he talking about? “Is it real?” CoinDesk wondered at the time. That post has since been deleted, but Mayweather would later shill more ICOs (including one that triggered a lawsuit), wore a tee shirt promoting “Ethereum Max” in June 2021, was roundly booed at a bitcoin conference and had one simple request for the world: “You can call me Floyd Crypto Mayweather.”
Currently the seventh-ranked women’s tennis player in the world, Pegula became the first female athlete to drop an NFT collection in March 2021, telling the Tennis Channel that “it's a really cool different kind of outlet for female athletes.” She noted that “sometimes you have to take some chances,” and hoped that she “inspires more athletes and more girls to do the same thing.""
“I believe in Bitcoin & the future is bright,” Rodgers tweeted. “That's why I’m teaming up with Cash App to take a portion of my salary in bitcoin today.” Wearing a black suit and tie (in a John Wick Halloween costume), Rodgers sipped a glass of whiskey and said, “Bitcoin to the moon,” announcing that he and Cash App will give away $1 million worth of bitcoin so that “we can go to the moon together.”
When not dishing dimes for the Dallas Mavericks, Dinwiddie co-founded the social token platform Calaxy (raising $26 million). He has been publicly bullish on bitcoin since October 2018 (in a Bleacher Report profile, he described how he traded bitcoin on his phone before NBA practices). He appeared on Pomp’s podcast in 2020. He tried to have his National Basketball Association contract tokenized, and he even hosted “New Money” for CoinDesk TV. The man is prescient. In May 2021, he told me that his NBA colleagues are warming to crypto, and that “everybody wants in.”
Long a champion of inclusiveness and equality, the soccer player helped bring female athletes into the NFT market by launching “The Collective Series,” a spread of digital trading cards that also includes skateboarder Mariah Duran, fencer Ibtihaj Muhammad, and Women's National Basketball Association icon Sue Bird. Rapinoe’s natural charisma is so strong that as Jezebel’s Shannon Melero put it, she “tragically forc[es] fans like me to consider buying cryptocurrency.”
It pays to be early. In May 2019, long before it became fashionable, Okung, then a player for the Los Angeles Chargers, tweeted a simple statement: “Pay me in bitcoin.” Crypto Twitter was ecstatic; “I see you!!!” gushed entrepreneur Anthony “Pomp” Pompliano, along with six fire emojis. Okung got his wish. Not only did he receive half his NFL salary in bitcoin (the first NFL player to do so), he also helped launch the “Bitcoin Is” educational campaign and even jostled with Tesla CEO Elon Musk over miners’ energy usage, paying for a billboard that said “Stick to space, Elon.”
In a commercial for FTX, Steph Curry, a guard on the Golden State Warriors, insists that he’s not an expert in crypto. Maybe. But he was savvy enough to snag an equity stake in FTX. He dropped 3,000 sneaker NFTs, he bought a Bored Ape (at one point worth 75 ETH), and he even made the Ape his Twitter avatar.
His teammates are also into crypto. Both Klay Thompson and Andre Iguodala are getting paid partially in bitcoin, and the Warriors signed an NFT partnership with FTX. Maybe most importantly, Curry wisely followed Brady’s advice: “Whatever you do … don’t laser eyes!”
Rodman has been out of the NBA for over two decades. But The Worm deserves a shout-out for an incredible tee shirt he wore to Singapore, where he had hoped to help broker peace between then-U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korea leader Kim Jong Un: “Peace Starts in Singapore - PotCoin.com” We agree that none of those words make any sense."
139,1140,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/27/tribalism-meritocracy-money-what-sports-and-crypto-fans-have-in-common/,"Tribalism, Meritocracy, Money: What Sports and Crypto Fans Have in Common","Both groups love underdogs, too, Columbia Business School professor Omid Malekan writes for CoinDesk's Sports Week.",2022-07-27,"Upon first glance, the crypto world and organized sports have little in common. One domain consists of elite athletes who earn a living from their physical prowess, while the other consists of techies who – to put it mildly – don’t. But a closer look reveals that being a sports fan and being a part of a Web3 community are in many ways alike.
One can even argue that being a diehard sports fan is the closest “old world” analog to being a passionate degen.
This piece is part of CoinDesk's ""Sports Week."" Omid Malekan is the author of several books, including ""Re-Architecting Trust, the Curse of History and the Crypto Cure for Money, Markets and Platforms"" and ""The Story of the Blockchain, a Beginner's Guide to the Technology That Nobody Understands"" and an associate professor in finance at Columbia Business School.
After all, both domains revolve around individuals who look past traditional social constructs to form a community based on a shared passion. Just as a popular team like the Golden State Warriors or Manchester United might attract millions of fans with unique backgrounds from all over the world, so can a crypto community like Bitcoin or Ethereum.
Both domains celebrate tribalism (up to a point), and the most rabid fans can be hostile toward members of a different tribe.
Sports and crypto also share a belief in meritocracy. Just as sports fans love the familiar story of an underdog who rises to the top on sheer talent and hustle, crypto embraces the entrepreneur without traditional credentials who creates something worthwhile.
See also: How New Technology is Impacting Sports
Last but certainly not least, money is an important factor in both worlds – for better and for worse.
These similarities help explain the convergence between pro sports and Web3. Prominent athletes like pro basketball player Spencer Dinwiddie and football star Tom Brady were among the earliest celebrities to publicly declare their support for Bitcoin, and a number of professional athletes now get some of their salary in crypto.
Blue-chip crypto companies like trading platform FTX have plowed millions into stadium naming rights, and the industry as a whole is a big spender on ads during major sporting events like the Super Bowl.
More interesting are the ways blockchain technology can revolutionize fandom. Sports fans have always been avid collectors, and – unlike the skeptics who still shake their heads at non-fungible tokens having any value – have no problem ascribing significant value to a picture.
NFTs represent a leap forward for things like baseball cards. They are easier to store and buy and sell than a piece of cardboard, can represent other kinds of media and can be programmed to include special rights, such as access to VIP events.
On-chain provenance allows anyone to airdrop other assets to the current owner, introducing a new type of composability to fandom. The leagues and athletes who issue the digital memorabilia can in turn program them to collect a royalty whenever they change hands. Everything can interoperate with DeFi (decentralized finance).
Best of all, NFTs are instantly verifiable in ways that pieces of cardboard are not. Counterfeits are a major problem for physical collectibles, but now there’s a blockchain for that. Less sexy but potentially more transformative is the adoption of NFTs for ticketing.
See also: Sports Picked up the Web3 Ball. Now It's Ready to Run
Blockchain platforms are all about trust, and few domains are more lacking in trust than event ticketing. For proof, check out the exorbitant fees that secondary markets like StubHub charge to help fans avoid being cheated. Such fees will go away once ticketing is moved on chain, and may instead be replaced by a recurring royalty that helps cut down on scalping going back to the venue.
Like with most Web3 applications, the ultimate promise lies in new engagement models between teams, athletes and their fans. Sports teams can issue fungible fan tokens with embedded rights like discounted tickets or access to exclusive events. They can even promise to buy and burn those tokens with a portion of their revenue, turning them into a form of equity.
Tokenization introduces new sources of financing for teams and a new way for individual athletes to monetize future earnings. They also enable a more engaged fan base.
The tantalizing possibility of fan ownership brings us to the one area where sports and crypto differ. Whereas Web3 projects are community owned, sports teams are often owned by wealthy individuals, leading to bad incentives. Some owners see their team only as a status symbol or cash machine and don’t care about nonfinancial results.
Tokenization represents a different model, one where fans own and operate teams. Governance will be challenging (as it always is), but gone will be the days of negligent owners who don’t care about winning.
This model is already being tried in lower leagues and there is even a DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) trying to buy a National Football League team.
The leagues will resist such democratization, but saying no to their own fans will become increasingly difficult once things like NFT ticketing, digital memorabilia and fan tokens go mainstream. And besides, as every fan knows, sometimes you just gotta believe.
NFL All Day is a digital collectible marketplace that lets football fans collect video highlights in the form of NFTs and connect with other like-minded fans from around the world. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.
Experiments with decentralized autonomous organizations promise greater fan participation in sports teams. Is this the future?
Non-fungible tokens have become a hot new revenue stream for sports leagues and their millions of fans."
140,751,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/27/alameda-research-leads-325m-seed-round-for-nft-media-company-trustless/,Alameda Research Leads $3.25M Seed Round for Trustless Media,The New York-based company lets creators tokenize TV productions with NFTs.,2022-07-27,"Web3 media company Trustless Media raised a $3.25 million in a seed funding round that was led by Sam Bankman-Fried’s Alameda Research with participation from Ava Labs and Red DAO, according to a press release. Bankman-Fried is a billionaire who co-founded the FTX crypto exchange.
Trustless works with content creators and organizations to help them tokenize their TV shows using non-fungible tokens, or NFTs. Shows can use the NFT model partly to crowdfund productions with holders who receive access to watch the token-gated content and who can participate in productions with on-chain voting.
The New York-based company is testing its own mission statement with the release of “Coinage,” a Web3 TV show that critically examines the crypto industry.
Trustless calls its collection of ""Coinage"" NFTs an experiment in “building a governing community,” with token holders given access to an ad-free version of the show upon its eventual release.
“Despite all the data we have, it's never been harder for studios and networks to guess what will break through the noise and actually connect with subscribers old and new,"" Zack Guzman, co-founder of Trustless, said in the release.
The greater NFT television landscape remains in its infancy, though several companies and big-name celebrities have begun testing the new business model.
Actress Mila Kunis announced in March she would be producing an NFT-backed TV show called “The Gimmicks,” which follows her successful NFT show “Stoner Cats,” which was released last summer.
Read more: Vitalik Buterin Joins Cast of ‘Stoner Cats,’ Mila Kunis’ New Animated NFT Show
Along with individual shows, numerous companies are bidding for the title of being the next “decentralized Netflix,” allowing shows to not only crowdfund using NFTs but also use their platform as a streaming service. Notable companies in this group include artist Pplpleasr’s Shibuya and Ritestream."
141,1143,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/27/how-sports-leagues-can-use-crypto-to-engage-fans/,How Sports Leagues Can Use Crypto to Engage Fans,"Crypto, like sports, can be fun, says Jonathan Manzi, the founder of Beyond Protocol. This op-ed is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.",2022-07-27,"Crypto and sports depend on teams.
A sports franchise and a blockchain startup are both led by a small pack of operators – whether it’s a revered National Football League coach and a seasoned quarterback, or a visionary founder alongside a savant developer – who must take their team to victory. They handle challenging conditions as one unit, all the while contending with large personalities, changing cultural tailwinds and frequent setbacks.
This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week. Jonathan Manzi is the founder and CEO of Beyond Protocol, a blockchain company specializing in the Internet of Things with human performance use cases involving NFL players like Rob Gronkowski.
The team extends beyond the immediate unit into a broader community. Just as tens of thousands of Patriots fans pack Gillette Stadium for each game, legions of cryptocurrency believers swarm Telegram channels for company announcements and giveaways. Fans root for successful performances from their teams during tough times. Colorful mascots, like the one for the Las Vegas Golden Knights of the National Hockey League or Uniswap’s mythical unicorn, serve as a rallying point for fans all connected by their shared love of the team.
While celebrity athletes have endorsed cryptocurrency projects, a real use case for crypto in sports lies in the stadium with fans and how they connect with the team. Whether it’s a blue-chip digital asset like bitcoin or colorful altcoins like doge, cryptocurrencies add a fun dimension to players’ storylines that fans now play crucial roles in.
When Tampa Bay Buccaneers fan Byron Kennedy caught Tom Brady’s 600th touchdown ball last October, the Bucs quarterback gave 1 BTC as a consolation prize to get the football back – in addition to season tickets and troves of Buccaneers merch.
“I am also giving him a bitcoin, which is pretty cool, too,” Brady said during a press conference, after tweeting “Let’s get this guy a Bitcoin.”
Brady has a partnership with crypto exchange FTX, and both parties turned the storyline to their advantage. Although the Buccaneers showered Kennedy with merch, the “cherry on top” is magical internet money landing in the fan’s smartphone – Bucs merch can be reproduced endlessly, but bitcoin is finite. Our company, Beyond Protocol, even joined the fun and gave Kennedy some of our native tokens, taking the journey from real life to social media to blockchain.
Cynics focusing solely on the corporate partnership between FTX and Brady miss the fact that crypto is fun, and there is a human and cultural element to it. Once regulation catches up with technology, sports franchises can offer airdrops to fans, while incentivizing the larger “team community” to publicly show support for players. Franchises can further leverage this model by tapping into iconic moments in their team’s history. Imagine receiving an NFT (non-fungible token) that grants access to baseball legend Ted Williams’ iconic red seat in the bleachers of Fenway Park in Boston.
Read More: How DAOs Could Change Sports
We’re still only in the top of the first inning when it comes to the maturation of blockchain technology. As the industry evolves, new use cases will emerge.
While it’s tempting to view these as theoretical talking points from crypto evangelists, the infrastructure in sports stadiums to enable blockchain is rapidly being built out, from FTX gobbling up the naming rights to the Miami Heat's arena, and then airdropping every fan in a section $500 in crypto, to Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban enabling dogecoin at Mavericks games.
Crypto and sports are fun.
“The Mavericks have decided to accept dogecoin as payment for Mavs tickets and merchandise for one very important, earth shattering reason, because we can!” Cuban said in a press release in March of last year. “We have chosen to do so because sometimes in business you have to do things that are fun.”
As a billionaire invested in decentralized finance (DeFi), Cuban understands the value of seeding fun, new concepts into pre-existing institutions, letting them take hold and grow. Whether it’s a meme coin or ticket scanner, whenever a new variable is introduced to any environment, both change over time. By accepting payments in a meme coin, the Mavericks franchise allows cryptocurrency to evolve in a contained ecosystem, while studying what works and what doesn’t with adoption.
Six months later in September 2021, the Mavericks’ launched a dogecoin cashback rewards program, indicating that meme coins are growing into an even greater part of the organization’s culture.
Read More: Tribalism, Meritocracy, Money: What Sports and Crypto Fans Have in Common
For all the crypto news cycles on dense macroeconomic trends, and overwrought topics like protocol exploits and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulation and bitcoin/Nasdaq depegging, the experts appear to misunderstand the fundamental nature of cryptocurrencies: They are a fun medium of exchange with cartoon mascots and built-in fanbases.
No wonder they have found a launchpad in sports stadiums."
142,872,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/28/how-the-golden-state-warriors-gamified-fandom-with-nfts/,How the Golden State Warriors Gamified Fandom With NFTs,Subtitle not found,2022-07-28,"The history of sports collectibles includes a $10,000 piece of Bazooka gum, a signed urinal and boxing legend Joe Frazier’s jockstrap – all used. So for some fans, shelling out $500 for a digital collectible that might go down the tubes with their team’s record might not be out of the question.
Digital sports collectibles on the blockchain are a relatively new phenomenon, but the impulse behind them is well established. Traditional sports collectibles support an entire industry. At the end of July, 80,000-90,000 people are expected to attend the 42nd annual National Sports Collectors Convention in Atlantic City, N.J., to peruse a sea of sports-curios. NFT (non-fungible token) projects' dreams of that kind of community.
This article is part of CoinDesk's ""Sports Week.""
NFTs, a way to establish ownership of digital media using a blockchain, served as an important catalyst for crypto adoption in the recent crypto bull market. During the 2021 crypto bull run, sports-themed NFTs drove significant interest with NBA Top Shot leading the way. As with traditional collectibles, buyers included a mix of enthusiasts and pure speculators.
Seeing a growing market, the Golden State Warriors, the championship-winning National Basketball Association team, became the first professional sports team to try its hand at marketing NFTs. The team released its first collection in April 2021 and has been innovating ever since.
“You almost think of it as a Venn diagram, where the circle on the left is Warriors fans and on the right is the NFT community and then they overlap,” Warriors Chief Operating Officer Brandon Schneider said in an interview. “As time goes on, [that overlap] has grown and will continue to grow.”
Located near Silicon Valley, the Golden State Warriors are the tech world’s NBA team. Several characters in the orbit of the team have ties to crypto. Chamath Palihapitiya, who until this month held a minority stake in the team, has publicly advocated for and invested in crypto assets.
Although, in a commercial for crypto exchange FTX, superstar Warriors' guard Stephen Curry flouted his lack of crypto knowledge and a made-for-TV trading account balance of $15,084.93, several of his teammates have been experimenting with digital assets. Longtime Warriors Klay Thompson and Andre Iguadala take a portion of their salary in bitcoin.
The very existence of the Warriors’ first NFT collection was innovative. It was a collection to commemorate the team’s six NBA championships and other moments in franchise history, and marked the first time an NBA team rather than an individual athlete experimented with NFTs.
But other teams quickly followed, and now that iconic collection of static JPEGs of digital championship rings and tickets seem to be standard fare. On the second go-round, the Warriors felt they needed to do something that would separate their collection from the competition.
“I think our fans are not only receptive to new ideas tied to technology, but actually expect it,” Schneider said.
In April, the Warriors released a new collection of NFTs with an innovative twist. The collection programmatically responded to the team’s on-court performance, rewarding holders as the Warriors advanced through the NBA playoffs.
Fans and speculators could purchase one of 3,000 NFTs and celebrate the team's wins with wins of their own. The main collection sold pieces for $499.99 each, (higher than the price to buy a ticket to most NBA games). But depending on the rarity of the NFT and the playoff round, holders could win courtside tickets to the finals or other prizes such as merchandise or additional NFTs. All were promised a digital championship ring NFT if the Warriors won the championship.
Perhaps because of a lingering aversion to gambling and its proxies, NBA teams don't typically tie fan rewards to the outcomes of games. Of course, there are small stakes promotions that spice up in-arena action. At Philadelphia 76ers' home games, for example, fans get a free Wendy’s Frosty if an opponent misses consecutive free throws in the second half of a game. Comparatively, the Warriors were dangling free tickets to Game 1 of the NBA Finals to NFT holders, with an average ticket price of $873.
The Warriors NFT gamified fandom, turning a spectator to a speculator invested in the team’s success. While giveaways and other holder benefits are common in the NFT world, the Warriors were the first pro team to tie the benefits explicitly to their success and market that feature as such. But it’s not clear if this model will be the future of NFTs in sports.
See also: How Sports Leagues Can Use Crypto to Engage Fans | Opinion
Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban told CoinDesk over email, “I think it’s one of the worst ideas ever.” In Cuban’s mind, this model could create undesirable speculation and potential losses could lead to disgruntled fans. Not very maverick of this Maverick.
The Warriors' collection didn’t sell out – perhaps due to poor timing or limited interest – but the Warriors did win their fourth championship since 2015 this year. The tokens are now a part of both NFT and NBA history – and perhaps mark the beginning of a new game being played in crypto and sports.
Depending on your orientation, sports collectibles and NFTs might be an investment, entertainment, a gamble or a waste of time. But an appetite for sports collectibles is time tested.
Dave Amerman, auction director at Goldin Auctions and longtime collector himself, has seen the sports collectibles market grow over the years. What started out as a cottage industry where people bought and sold playing cards or memorabilia has rapidly become professional.
“It's become a whole lot more than just a love for the passion,” Amerman said. There were people who saw the potential early and invested “tens of thousands of dollars a couple of decades ago” and who have come into “life-changing money,” he said.
Collectors can now open a $5 pack of cards in the hopes of finding a rarity worth $100,000. As the money has grown, the field has attracted an entirely new breed of buyer.
“There's plenty of, we'll call it newer money in the hobby, where there's people that come in purely on spec, big business guys, people that run hedge funds, all sorts of those types of investors,” Amerman said.
Alt, an alternative investment group, recently purchased a stake in a Steph Curry trading card for a then-record $5.9 million valuation
A similar dynamic played out in the crypto bull market during the coronavirus pandemic. NFTs, once a niche market of the already niche digital asset industry, exploded, with sports-related platforms like Top Shot seeing a notable surge in interest.
Both fandom and speculation contribute to the market price for collectibles. Typically, buyers speculate on the existence of a future market for a particular collectible. The Warriors collection of so-called ""responsive"" NFTs mixed that up by an asset's value to material rewards based on the team's performance. You weren't just betting the NFTs could be sold in the distant future, but whether the Warriors would win an upcoming game.
It’s a ploy with sound reasoning. For as big as the sports collectibles market is (estimated $26.1 billion), the market for sports gambling market (estimated $76.5 billion) dwarfs it. And indirect wagering games like fantasy sports remain hugely popular.
It can be a thorny proposition for a multibillion-dollar sports franchise to attach its brand to an NFT project. And not just because you could make any committed fan angry if they lose money.
There are legitimate concerns that some NFTs that generate profits could be deemed securities, no matter how tightly lawyered the mint was. By specifically marketing the series on wins and losses, NFTs responsive to team success might warrant increased scrutiny.
“There are plenty of ways to gamble"" on sports, Cuban said. Sports and NFTs are a natural fit, he said, but it becomes ethically dubious if a team is promoting financial speculation. NFTs can have utility for sports fans: They can be used as mementos, can provide people with backstage access and can record highlight moments from games, for instance.
""We use the NFTS as a free reward for scanning in to a Mavs game. That’s the behavior we want to reward. Coming to games,” Cuban wrote.
That idea is sometimes referred to as ""proof-of-attendance"" tokens. It's perhaps the digital equivalent of when stadiums hand out commemorative cups or T-shirts as a badge of physical world fandom. Proof-of-attendance tokens are still financial assets that can be traded on secondary marketplaces, but so far, the emphasis has been engaging with teams in a way that’s fan-first, finance-second.
Schneider, the Warriors' COO, discounted the idea of attendance tokens, given the increasingly global nature of sports fandoms. Most people will never be able to mint their proof-of-attendance, even if they are a Warriors die-hard fan.
See also: NBA Top Shot 101
“The reality is 99% of our fans will never go to a game at Chase Center, because they live all around the world,” he said, referring to the Warriors' home arena in San Francisco.
These are the kinds of concerns franchises must consider when diving into NFTs, he said. Although there is a market for autographs, many people are content simply with the sentimental value. Digital collectible can operate in the same way – simply as a meaningful fan experiences. Or they can become vehicles for speculation.
The culture of NFTs is the culture of crypto, and therefore filled with hustlers. Investors in NFTs are often buying the idea of a future project or company that has yet to be built. It’s become common parlance on Twitter and Discord for buyers to say “devs do something,” when prices begin to fall.
One buyer of the Warriors playoff collection, Twitter user @jd84722, told CoinDesk he was disappointed in the lack of advertising for the team's NFTs. “They lacked marketing [for] this project big time!"" he said.
But for colossus sports franchises, unlike pure-play NFT projects, there is less of an incentive to pull levers to inflate prices. In fact, that may be opening the doors to controversy, regulatory scrutiny and public backlash.
“We would like them to have strong value over time, for sure, because we want people to feel good about the purchase that they made,” Schneider said. But the Warriors don’t want to create an atmosphere where “people think that they can buy and flip them and make money,” he added.
Teams face a similar dilemma with the resale of game tickets, and have developed mechanisms to reduce ticket scalping – especially online. Franchises may one day sell tickets as NFTs, which could help track bad actors, or complicate the matter with crypto’s hyper-capitalist markets.
It’s unlikely that teams will be able to create blockchain bubbles that isolate fans from these flippers and profit seekers. The future of successful and high-value team NFTs may depend on how well teams weed out or tolerate buyers looking to make an easy dollar.
There is no playbook on how an NBA brand should execute its NFT strategy. Schneider pushed for the Warriors’ first NFT collection after a staffer texted him about NBA Top Shot. Though the team has been pleased with its early experiments, the business line is a work in progress, he said.
“Will we do another responsive NFT? I don’t know, probably,” Schneider said. “Will we continue to create NFTs that have different utilities? I think so, I think that’s kind of where things have gone and probably where they’ll continue to head.”
In some sense, the team is taking cues from the recent legalization of sports betting in some states. Like crypto, gambling presents an opportunity for fans to engage with sports in a more active way. It also causes concern.
Following a series of scandals, the NBA has pushed for a set of laws that would legalize gambling while ensuring the integrity of the game and secure a portion of the profits for the league.
See also: Tribalism, Meritocracy, Money: What Sports and Crypto Fans Have in Common | Opinion
NFTs and crypto in general are controversial. Many organizations are criticized for simply exploring pilot programs, because of the crypto industry's notable environmental footprint and rampant scams. But Web3 also presents a path to remunerate participants in traditionally profitless activities and to build communities.
Fans built sports franchises into behemoths through emotional and financial investments in their teams. If NFTs present a path for franchises to give back some of that investment, interest would become only stronger. If there’s dignity in fandom rooted in emotional affiliation, money at stake won’t necessarily dilute that.
At the very least, given the appropriate consumer protections, investable entertainment can be a win-win for fans and teams. Except, in this case, for fans of the New York Knicks."
143,1144,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/28/step-finance-acquires-solanafloor-to-provide-defi-nft-data-insights/,"Step Finance Acquires SolanaFloor to Provide DeFi, NFT Data Insights","Once a customer of SolanaFloor's, Step Finance is expanding from a focus on DeFi to also include NFTs.",2022-07-28,"Solana-based data platform Step Finance has acquired non-fungible token (NFT) data insights platform SolanaFloor for an undisclosed amount, the companies said Thursday.
Step Finance is a Solana analytics platform with 110,000 monthly active users. Step, which won a Solana Hackathon in March 2021, started as a customer of SolanaFloor. Step is looking to expand its platform to encompass NFTs, and its acquisition of SolanaFloor will take the company one step further in that direction.
Co-founder of Step Finance George Harrap told CoinDesk that there are many new users entering the Solana ecosystem from different angles.
“There are some users who don't really know about DeFi and likewise, a lot of DeFi people who don't really know about NFTs, so the sum is greater than two parts,” Harrap said.
SolanaFloor also won a Solana Hackathon and currently has 23,000 monthly active users. Wazza (a pseudonym), the founder of the platform, said that taking its data to Step will improve the data surrounding the Solana ecosystem.
“Step is pretty much the home for DeFi and we're pretty much the home for NFTs on Solana, so this makes perfect sense,” Wazza said.
Step Finance has been steadily building since its launch last year. Following its success at the hackathon, it raised $2 million from Alameda Research, which is owned by crypto exchange FTX's CEO Sam Bankman-Fried.
Step and SolanaFloor aren’t the only companies breaking into the Solana data insights market. In June, blockchain analytics firm Nansen said it would begin tracking the chain’s data amid its growing NFT minting volume.
Harrap said Step Finance and SolanaFloor plan to implement a blue chip index for NFTs to give broader insights into the Solana ecosystem. The company will also use funds to onboard team members from Solana Floor to Step.
Read more: Step Finance to Aggregate Solana’s Decentralized Exchanges Onto Dashboard"
144,1141,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/31/first-mover-asia-btc-dips-below-235k-the-crypto-bear-market-will-test-thailands-sec/,First Mover Asia: BTC Dips Below $23.5K; The Crypto Bear Market Will Test Thailand’s SEC,The country’s market regulator has said that stricter digital asset rules are coming to ensure that investors are protected.,2022-07-31,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether trade slightly lower on Sunday; other cryptos are mixed.
Insights: The crypto bear market will test Thailand's markets regulator.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $23,334 −1.4%
●Ether (ETH): $1,681 −0.9%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,130.29 +1.4%
●Gold: $1,780 per troy ounce +1.0%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.64% −0.04
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Fall in Sunday Trading
By James Rubin
After a quick spurt upwards on Saturday, bitcoin returned to a lower altitude under $24,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently at roughly $23,350, down slightly over the previous 24 hours. Bitcoin finished its second consecutive positive week, rising more than 13% from its Monday low, at one point topping $24,500 amid hopeful signs the economy was slowing enough for the U.S. central bank to soon consider scaling back interest rate hikes. For July, bitcoin rose over 23%, while ether soared more than 55% to change hands a little under $1,700.
On Wednesday, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased interest rates by a widely anticipated 75 basis points (0.75 percentage point). A day later, the U.S. Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product (GDP) declined by an unexpectedly high 0.9%.
""The FOMC [Federal Open Market Committee], some tech earnings and the GDP numbers didn't really dent market confidence last week,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of the crypto asset manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk. ""BTC had been showing positive signs in terms of price stability and bidding action below $20,000. All of those things resulted in a rally of sorts, seeing BTC trading just below $25,000.""
Most major altcoins were mixed with NMR and FIL gaining 20% and 10%, respectively, but AXS and SOL each dropping over 2%.
Crypto gains on Friday dovetailed with major equity indexes, which rose with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, jumping 1.8% and 1.4%, respectively. Both indexes rose in July with the latter gaining over 9% for the month, its largest increase since November 2020, as investors remained undaunted by disappointing earnings and warnings of slowing growth to come at a number of the world's largest brands.
Continued fallout for crypto
Crypto news included the now almost daily aftershocks from the the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin collapse and Three Arrows Capital bankruptcy. A report published by The Block, citing a restructuring proposal deck, said Hong Kong-based crypto lender Babel Finance lost $280 million in proprietary trades with customer funds. Babel Finance suspended withdrawals and redemptions, citing market volatility and hired U.S. investment banking firm Houlihan Lokey to help chalk out a restructuring plan. Babel is one of the several crypto companies, suffering from the “crypto contagion” following the Terra and Three Arrows Capital debacles.
Yet as Arcane Research noted in its most recent Friday newsletter, while the crypto lending space is in shambles, other industry developments were more favorable, including Spanish banking giant Santander's (SAN) announcement that its Brazil unit would begin offering crypto trading, and large, capital raises by several projects, including Series A rounds of $65 million by Web3 digital identity service provider Unstoppable Domains and $150 million by layer 1 blockchain Aptos Labs. The latter was led by FTX Ventures, the venture capital arm of crypto exchange FTX, and Jump Crypto.
""Significant capital raises are back as the dust has settled in the industry,"" Arcane wrote.
Still, BitBull's DiPasquale remains wary about the macroeconomic environment and its potential to head off a longer-term crypto rally. He will be watching what comes out of the FOMC's September meeting. Another hefty interest rate increase is expected.
""We are likely to see increased volatility in the coming month as speculators take their chances,"" he wrote, but added: ""We remain confident that bidding BTC under $20,000 is likely to be a decent entry in the long-term. We continue to look for signs of conclusive breakouts and would be comfortable taking entries during steep drops in the coming months.""
Crypto Bear Market Will Test Thailand’s SEC
By Sam Reynolds
Thais have a taste for crypto. At the height of last year’s bull market there were more crypto trading accounts being created in-country than stock brokerage accounts, growing at a rate of 27.6% versus 2.9% for brokerage accounts.
Part of the appeal of crypto for Thais might have stemmed from lack of other investment opportunities. Real estate is often out of reach. The stock market is rife with fraud and Ponzi schemes. Crypto, in the eyes of many, would have offered an opportunity to generate wealth that can’t be found in traditional vehicles.
But that was the bull market. Most retail traders behind these accounts would have suffered heavy losses as the market slid into bear territory. Cracks are beginning to form in some of the infrastructure; local exchange Zipmex filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this week, citing exposure to troubled crypto protocols like Babel.
Thailand’s market regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission, has been active in crypto. Last year the Thai SEC banned tokens that have “no clear objectives or substance” from licensed exchanges. DOGE was gone. It put non-fungible tokens (NFT) in the same category but appeared to ease up as local incumbent bank Kasikorn got involved in the market.
Now the Thai SEC says that stricter digital asset rules are coming. Policy is in the early stages of deliberation, but Thai SEC Secretary-General Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol told Bloomberg that stronger supervision is needed: “Our main focus will be to provide more protection for small investors, some of whom are putting most of their savings into these assets,” she said.
Checking all digital assets
Speaking to Thailand’s public broadcaster’s English channel, Anusorn Tamajai, a former member of the Bank of Thailand’s audit committee, said that “the SEC urgently needs to check every digital asset exchange to verify whether all clients’ assets are kept safe there.”
Considering that Zipmex had sudden liquidity issues, and other exchanges like Vauld also had to suspend withdrawals, trying to isolate which exchanges have been exposed to crypto contagion could stop the problem right in its tracks.
Navigating the bear market by putting problematic infrastructure offline before retail investors get burnt would allow the ecosystem, as a whole, to come back stronger.
It would also be a victory for the regulator to take a comparatively soft touch; any sort of wholesale retail ban is off the table as is pushing digital assets into securities rules. That sets Thailand apart from Hong Kong and even Singapore, which is becoming more crypto skeptical.
Unlike Hong Kong or Singapore, Thailand isn’t known for the strength of its regulated financial markets. But if regulators are able to take a firm hand in cutting out problematic exposed infrastructure from the market, all the while treating crypto with a soft touch, they might demonstrate that there’s a way to regulate digital assets and protect retail consumers without a ban.
But if regulators are able to take a firm hand in cutting out problematic exposed infrastructure from the market, all the while treating crypto with a soft touch, they might demonstrate that it’s possible to work with the industry in building a safer environment for retail traders rather than being advocates for excluding retail participation altogether.
Bitcoin Independence Day
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun Bank manufacturing PMI (July)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia TD Securities inflation (July/MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
June PCE Rises 6.8%, Bitcoin Relief Rally, IMF Official on ‘Gloomy’ Global Economic Outlook
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) suggested a global recession is likely. Joining ""First Mover"" to discuss the IMF's July report, including crypto's impact on the broader financial system, is Antonio Garcia Pascual, deputy chief of the global market analysis division at the International Monetary Fund. The Fed's favorite inflation gauge rose 6.8% from a year ago in June. Glen Goodman, eToro crypto consultant, discussed the latest economic data and provided his crypto markets analysis. Plus, SonicWall President Bill Conner has an update on cybercrime.
Ethereum Classic Almost Triples, MATIC and UNI Surge as July Brings Relief to Crypto Market: Ethereum classic's rally is consistent with its record of rallying around major Ethereum upgrades, one observer said.
Coinbase’s Stock at Crossroads as Cathie Wood’s Ark Sells Some: The trading platform may need more than just a rally in crypto prices to regain investor confidence.
Crypto’s Slide Hasn't Bled Into the 'Real Economy,' IMF Official Says: Antonio Garcia Pascual, deputy chief of the global market analysis division at International Monetary Fund, joined CoinDesk TV to discuss why the crypto contagion hasn’t really spilled over into other markets.
Crypto.com and FTX Bet Big on Stadium Naming Rights Before the Crypto Crash. What Happens if They Can’t Afford to Pay?: The glamour of a stadium naming deal can turn sour – just ask Enron. Here’s how a deal might unwind if things go bad.
KuCoin Claims Bragging Rights as First Exchange to Offer NFT ETFs: The novel suite of exchange-traded fund products is denominated in USDT and offers fractional ownership of five blue chip NFT collections.
Why NBA Athletes Are Turning to Web3 to Build Generational Wealth: NFTs and the metaverse may provide a source of income long after players hang up their high tops, says Marcus Bläsche, CEO of Rumble Kong League. This op-ed is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.
Other voices: Nearly 75% of retailers plan to accept cryptocurrency payments within the next 2 years (CNBC)
""Despite the market thrash, our long-term conviction in crypto as a technology and asset class remains strong. The quality of talent coming into crypto has never been stronger. Meanwhile, the tourist investor class has thankfully decamped. We believe the next 12–24 months will be an exceptionally fruitful time for building and investing in crypto."" (excerpt from Paradigm letter to investors) ... ""When we affect the plans around the CoinFLEX Composite distributions (inclusive of rvUSD, equity and FLEX coin), we want to be in a position, cost-wise, to make sure that we have every chance to be a successful business which begins by being a leaner business staffing-wise."" This means that we, unfortunately, had to let go of a significant number of the CoinFLEX team across all departments and geographies."" (CoinFLEX blog)"
145,754,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/03/us-senate-bill-will-give-cftc-crypto-market-oversight-but-doesnt-say-how-much/,US Senate Bill Will Give CFTC Crypto Market Oversight – but Doesn't Say How Much,"The measure would make the Commodity Futures Trading Commission the watchdog for most of the market, but it doesn’t define whether tokens are securities or commodities.",2022-08-03,"The latest U.S. legislative effort to steer most crypto oversight to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has bipartisan support but does little to answer the crypto industry's top question: What makes a token a security or a commodity?
The legislation from the leaders of the Senate’s Agriculture Committee would require crypto firms involved in the trading of digital commodities – including bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) – to register with the CFTC as their primary regulator, something industry leaders such as FTX co-founder and CEO Sam Bankman-Fried are cheering from the sidelines.
But while the bill would grant expanded authority to the CFTC to oversee crypto spot markets, it relies on the courts and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to set the boundaries for which tokens may be considered a commodity.
“Right now, there's really a patchwork of state regulations and no federal agency to conduct oversight over the cryptocurrencies, and we know that needs to change,” said Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), the committee’s chairwoman, who unveiled the bill Wednesday with the panel’s ranking Republican, Sen. John Boozman (R-Ark.). “The money of American consumers is at risk.”
Their committee has jurisdiction over commodities, so its oversight authority extends only to the CFTC. That’s as far as the lawmakers wanted to stretch their effort, unlike more sweeping bills such as the crypto push from Sen. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.)
“We're staying in our lane, but it's a really important lane for consumers,” Stabenow told reporters during a web call Wednesday. She explained the decision not to define crypto as securities was about staying inside the Senate panel’s jurisdiction. As for crypto commodities, the legislation defines them as a digital form of property that can be directly transferred between people without any institution acting as middleman.
The bill doesn’t go into great detail on that definition, however, apart from giving the examples of bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), which the SEC previously defined as commodities. Apart from that, the legislation says the CFTC can affix its commodities stamp on whatever crypto assets aren't considered by the SEC to be securities.
However, CFTC Chair Rostin Behnman has also been vying for new authority to regulate digital commodity spot markets, where the assets directly change hands. The new bill would grant that authority. The CFTC would be given “exclusive jurisdiction over any account, agreement, contract or transaction involving a digital commodity trade,” according to the text of the bill.
Behnam commended the lawmakers for their “targeted” effort. He didn’t directly address the significant new CFTC role over cash markets, which would represent an unprecedented reach for the agency into a specific sector.
“We are at a critical inflection point where new legislative authority is needed to clarify ambiguities and provide a regulatory framework,” Behnam said in a statement.
The two senators, backed by colleagues Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and John Thune (R-S.D.), say they may pursue a September markup, which is an open session inviting debate over the details of the legislation.
They insisted this bill isn't just meant to start a discussion. While the Lummis-Gillibrand bill is meant to frame a debate that’s largely expected to take place next year, Stabenow and Boozman said they intend to get their bipartisan legislation passed this year.
Stabenow said it’s “very realistic” they could reach a committee markup in September, and she noted that only needing to get the bill through a single committee streamlines the process.
A similar bill has been previously introduced in the House of Representatives, but it hasn’t yet reached a committee vote.
If the bills become law, the CFTC would oversee the vast majority of the crypto market by value, because bitcoin and ether are the biggest tokens by far. Dealers, brokers, custodians and trading facilities would each have new registration requirements with the agency, and fees on those businesses would fund the staff growth the agency would need.
Boozman said the legislation assumes the commodities and securities agencies will work closely with each other, though he said “the CFTC is the place” where authority over the crypto industry belongs.
“We are going to need cooperation between the SEC and the CFTC as we move forward to really hash this out,” he said.
Denelle Dixon, Stellar Development Foundation’s CEO, had met last week with the senators to push for more regulatory clarity. She tweeted that this bill marks “a big step in that direction.”
Bankman-Fried took to Twitter on Wednesday to praise the legislation, saying it would “provide clear federal oversight to digital asset commodity markets” and that his firm would be happy to register under this proposed regime.
1) I'm really excited to see @SenStabenow and @JohnBoozman introduce a strong bill to bring customer protection and federal oversight to crypto.https://t.co/AJAWjOHgDy
The most recent bills are part of a trend in Congress. There are bipartisan proposals for regulating U.S.-pegged stablecoins and legislation that would address some of the crypto industry’s chief tax worries. However, all face delays due to the coming congressional summer recess and the approaching midterm elections.
Lawmakers who once dismissed crypto as a momentary financial trend have changed their minds.
""Everyone thought this was going to go away, that it was nothing,” Stabenow acknowledged. “Well, it's not nothing. We need to treat this seriously and take our responsibilities seriously."""
146,453,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/08/bankrupt-lender-celsius-token-surges-on-twitter-driven-short-squeeze/,Bankrupt Lender Celsius’ Token Surges on Twitter-Driven Short Squeeze,CEL has gained about 300% since Celsius filed for bankruptcy last month.,2022-08-08,"Bankrupt crypto lender Celsius Network’s CEL token jumped to $1.63 on Monday, and is now trading at a higher price than before Celsius encountered financial difficulties and halted user withdrawals.
The CEL token dropped to as low as 15 cents on June 12 when the embattled crypto lender announced that it was halting withdrawals. Its current price marks a tenfold rise in less than two months, and a 300% gain since July 13 when Celsius filed for bankruptcy protection, according to data on crypto intelligence platform Messari.
“It seems that a lot of speculative assets like CEL or even the meme stocks are surging as growth equities are trying to recover,” Brett Sifling, director at Gerber Kawasaki Wealth & Investment Management, told CoinDesk.
A community-driven short squeeze organized on Twitter under the #CELShortSqueeze banner likely added to speculation about the token’s price.
Good Morning #CelShortSqueeze Gang 🌞☕️

Are you guys buying $CEL and making money?! https://t.co/XQjqOGCUsb pic.twitter.com/zYJJAMzaYQ
Following Celsius’ troubles, many traders bet on a further drop in CEL’s price by shorting the coin on exchanges (listing sell orders). But a group of people spotted an opportunity for a move similar to last year’s GameStop (GME) short squeeze.
Short squeezes are sudden price spikes of embattled assets that force short sellers to buy back at a higher price to cover their positions. The bankrupt crypto broker Voyager Network’s VGX token offers the latest example of short squeezes.
Freezing Celsius’ transfers meant that a large part of the total supply of CEL tokens are locked on the platform, and only a fraction of the tokens trade on exchanges.
FTX hosts about 4.4 million CEL tokens, more than all other exchanges combined, according to a dashboard on crypto data analytics platform Dune. Meanwhile, the open short positions on the exchange amount to three million tokens, a data compilation shows.
The community attempts to pressure short sellers by buying CEL tokens on FTX, withdrawing the digital currency from the exchange to a private wallet and setting a sell order at a sky-high price (some traders promote a $100 price tag).
“Since the circulating supply is very small, it is technically possible to create a short squeeze, although the impact in the overall market could be very limited and hard to sustain over a longer period of time,” Samir Kerbage, crypto asset manager Hashdex’s chief product and technology officer, told CoinDesk.
As the price spiked Monday from $1.43 to as high as $1.63, about 300,000 CEL short positions were closed on FTX and liquidations surpassed $480,000 in the last 24 hours, according to data provided by Coinglass.
While some analysts are optimistic about CEL’s long-term recovery, Kerbage is skeptical about the coin’s future.
“There's limited upside for investors trying to create the squeeze other than activism or show support to Celsius, while there's a big downside: The token can go to zero or Celsius could dump more tokens in the market,” he said."
147,842,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/08/ethers-deepest-backwardation-since-2020-crash-shows-traders-prepping-for-ethereum-pow-split/,Ether's Deepest 'Backwardation' Since 2020 Crash Shows Traders Prepping for Ethereum PoW Split,"Traders have been buying ETH in the spot market and selling ether futures to withstand volatility, creating the unusual dynamic.",2022-08-08,"Ether's (ETH) futures market showed ""backwardation"" on Monday, with three-month contracts trading at the widest discount to the spot price since the coronavirus-induced crash of March 2020.
Data provided by Skew showed Binance-listed three-month futures traded at a steep annualized discount of 6% to the spot price, while those on the OKEx and FTX exchanges changed hands at a discount of over 4%. The premium, or contango, evaporated early this month.
This so-called backwardation seemingly stemmed from traders taking short positions to protect their bullish spot market exposure from ""Merge""-induced price turbulence and safely earn free money from a potential hard fork. Futures markets are typically in ""contango,"" where contracts for future months draw a higher price than the spot level, representing the time value of money and cost of storage.
Ethereum's impending Merge – a supposedly ETH-bullish network upgrade that will combine the current proof-of-work (PoW) blockchain with the proof-of-stake (PoS) Beacon Chain that went live in December 2020 – is likely to happen in September. Last month, Ethereum founder Tim Beiko mentioned Sept. 19 as the tentative date for the Merge. Although ether is rallying ahead of the event, the upgrade may not be smooth.
Prominent Chinese miner Chandler Guo is against the Merge and favors maintaining a PoW version of the network post-upgrade. If Guo's movement gathers traction, the chain could fork or split into two, with the new PoS chain retaining ETH as the native token and the old PoW chain launching its own ETH PoW token. In any case, ETH holders at the time of the fork will receive the ETH PoW tokens for free.
""The ETH futures market has been digesting the possibility, as basis is currently negative, coalescing around the December 2022 expiry,"" said Ainsley To, a senior research analyst at Genesis Global Trading, which is owned by Digital Currency Group, CoinDesk's parent company.
""This reflects hedging demand from the popular trade of the moment –long ETH via the spot market to be eligible for the ETH PoW token in event of a potential fork, and hedging the exposure via ETH futures,"" To said.
Singapore-based crypto derivatives giant QCP Capital voiced a similar opinion last week, saying that ""holding spot ETH would gain an additional valuable ETH PoW token without taking any price risk on ETH as the long position is hedged by the short futures.""
QCP holds a large position in this so-called risk-free trade. Expecting the backwardation to deepen as the Merge nears, the firm announced on its Telegram-based channel that it intends to hold the position for some time.
Ethereum founder Vitalik Buterin doesn't expect a potential hard fork to have a lasting impact on the post-Merge proof-of-stake chain. However, some exchanges, including BitMEX, Poloniex and OKEx, have declared support for the possible fork. Tron founder Justin Sun has come out in favor of a potential fork, promising support for developing the existing Ethereum network following the Merge."
148,1145,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/09/first-mover-americas-as-bitcoin-and-ether-slide-investors-bet-on-ethereum-fork/,"First Mover Americas: As Bitcoin and Ether Slide, Investors Bet on Ethereum Fork","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Aug. 9, 2022.",2022-08-09,"Price Point: As bitcoin and ether trade lower Tuesday, investors and analysts are focused on the upcoming Merge and the potential of a forked proof-of-work ETH.
Market Moves: A report from Coinbase said layer 2 blockchains could siphon revenue away from Ethereum. The future of layer 2s could be a “zero-sum game” because the layer 2 that houses the majority of dapps could “power the entirety of the Ethereum ecosystem,” the report said.
Chart of The Day: Bitcoin's correlation with Nasdaq hits its lowest since January.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) were down 3% on the day, while U.S. stock futures inched lower as investors waited for the release of U.S. consumer price data on Wednesday. The dollar extended a decline.
The consumer price data could set expectations for how the Federal Reserve will approach monetary policy and whether it will continue to raise rates aggressively.
According to Matteo Bottacini, a trader at Crypto Finance AG, volatility won't spike before or after the economic data is released.
“As a consequence, I see risky assets inching higher,” Bottacini wrote in a morning note to investors. “Then again, geopolitical tensions coupled with the released earnings might weigh on equities – and, consequently, on crypto.”
Bottacini pointed out that the hot topic now is the upcoming Merge on the Ethereum network. The basis (the spread between futures price and spot price) for ether widened with September futures on crypto exchange FTX at a $10 discount, and in December at a $40 discount.
“This is the consequence of many stories and rumors about the possibility of having a forked proof-of-work ETH and a proof-of-stake coin,” Bottacini said. “Traders are buying the spot ETH and selling the longer-term future to take advantage of this possibility. Therefore, holding ETH will let you receive the forked asset that might be quite valuable.”
On Monday, JPMorgan analyst Ken Worthington said anticipation of the Merge helped drive ether's big move higher in July and boosted crypto in general.
After two tests were completed ahead of the event, ether's price jumped 70% in July, compared with bitcoin's 27% increase.
Tron founder Justin Sun said in an interview with CoinDesk TV that he supports the post-Merge Ethereum fork, saying he thinks the proof-of-work way of operating is an ""essential"" component of Ethereum.
CoinDesk’s Daniel Kuhn reported that Ethereum fees are at their lowest level in two years. The average cost for a transaction is under 12.5 gwei. A gwei is a unit of account that represents a fraction of an ETH used to measure the transaction fees needed to run Ethereum. That’s less than half the gwei needed to use Ethereum at the end of July.
As for the rest of the crypto market, altcoins took a hit Tuesday with filecoin (FIL) down 11%, Uniswap’s UNI down 8% and Avalanche (AVAX) down 6.5%. On Monday, Robinhood Markets announced that customers can now buy and sell AVAX through Robinhood Crypto.
Cryptocurrency exchange Zipmex will release ether to users' wallets on Friday with bitcoin following a week later. The platform blocked customers from taking direct custody of their coins last month.
Crypto-focused data analytics platform Messari plans to raise fresh financing at a $300 million valuation, according to The Block. Messari founder and CEO Ryan Selkis declined to comment on the funding, but tweeted: ""I don’t comment on market rumors related to Messari, but… We’ve scaled to 130 people on zero net operating burn, had a record July, and are hiring $35mm worth of developers to help bring transparency and institutional-grade data tool to the crypto market.""
And finally, Singapore-based Amber Group, which provides liquidity and market-making services mostly in Asia, has expanded its retail trading operation to Brazil. Called WhaleFin, the retail platform – which allows users to buy and sell crypto as well as take out loans – has been operating in Brazil since June.
Ethereum Layer 2s Could Take Revenue From the Blockchain as They Become More Competitive: Coinbase
By Will Canny
The Ethereum blockchain needs layer 2 systems to help deal with its “shortcomings on cost and throughput,” though those same scaling products could leech revenue from the network as they become “competitive rather than complementary,” crypto exchange Coinbase (COIN) said in a research report Monday.
“It's feasible that layer 2s could become the application layers hosting the bulk of economic activity while Ethereum exists exclusively to store transaction data,” David Duong, head of institutional research at Coinbase, wrote in the report.
A layer 1 network is the base layer, or the underlying infrastructure of a blockchain. Layer 2 refers to a set of off-chain systems or separate blockchains built on top of layer 1s. A decentralized application (dapp) is a digital app that uses blockchain technology to keep users’ data out of the hands of the organizations behind it.
The future of layer 2s could be a “zero-sum game” because the layer 2 that houses the majority of dapps could “power the entirety of the Ethereum ecosystem,” the report said. There is about $68.9 billion in total value locked on Ethereum, compared with $5.2 billion across layer 2s, the report said.
While the TVL in layer 2s is relatively small, the implementation of zero knowledge Ethereum Virtual Machines (zkEVM) is looking more achievable and could lead to “major traction” in layer 2 growth, the note said.
Coinbase says that if more user activity moves to layer 2s and those blockchains need their own tokens to enable transactions, that could reduce the staking yields to Ethereum validators , cutting their revenue. That could reduce staking on the platform and increase the amount of ether (ETH) circulating, potentially damaging the cryptocurrency’s price. A decline in validators could also have a negative impact on the overall security of the network, the report said.
For the time being, transacting on Ethereum's main network will provide a solution for users who need or value “security over speed,” the report said, noting that losses on cross-chain bridge exploits have reached $2 billion this year.
More activity accumulating to an application on layer 2 would reduce congestion and fees on the layer 1 and that could result in better price discovery for ETH, the note said.
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin seems to be decoupling from traditional markets amid the optimism stemming from Ethereum's impending Merge.
The 90-day correlation co-efficient between bitcoin and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index has dropped to 0.37, the lowest since January, according to data provided by charting platform TradingView.
In other words, the positive correlation between the two is at its weakest level in seven months, and the leading cryptocurrency is now relatively less sensitive to equity markets and perhaps macro factors than it was early this year.
Zipmex to Restart Ether, Bitcoin Withdrawals in the Next Few Days: The platform plans to release ""a specific amount"" of ETH and BTC on the two dates.
Bitcoin Miner CleanSpark Buys 36 MW Facility and 3,400 Machines in Georgia for $25.1M: The Las Vegas-based company continues to look for growth in a market ripe for mergers and acquisitions.
Kazakh Authorities Arrest 23 Suspected of Forcing IT Professional to Run an Illegal Crypto Mine: The country is still grappling with the illegal crypto mining industry.
Korean Blockchain Project Klaytn Commits $20M to Asian Universities for Blockchain Research: The funding program will support research at two of Asia’s most highly ranked technology schools.
Reserve Bank of Australia Starts New Pilot to Explore CBDC Use Cases: Australia's central bank plans to create a CBDC that will operate in a ring-fenced environment."
149,1142,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/10/after-brutal-q2-coinbase-needs-to-get-smart-about-revenue-streams-analyst-says/,"After Brutal Q2, Coinbase Needs to ‘Get Smart’ About Revenue Streams: Analyst Says","Michael Safai, managing partner at Dexterity Capital, joined CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” to discuss Coinbase's second-quarter earnings and the outlook for the crypto exchange.",2022-08-10,"Coinbase Global (COIN) will need to reevaluate its approach when it comes to earning revenue, said Michael Safai, a managing partner at trading firm Dexterity Capital.
Safai told CoinDesk TV on Wednesday the U.S. crypto exchange’s lower-than-expected earnings report does not come as a surprise, but does highlight how the exchange’s business model and overall management style might be falling out of time.
“Coinbase is going to have to get smart about how they are going to make revenue numbers in the future,” Safai said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” show.
On Tuesday, the largest publicly traded crypto company in the U.S. posted a net loss of more than $1 billion for the second quarter amid declining trading volumes and a so-called crypto winter. The exchange missed analysts’ revenue expectations by more than 30%, falling to $803 million.
Safai said Coinbase’s overall strategy in the near term needs to be “survive, be smart about spending” and “find new ways to generate revenue.”
That could mean its existing business model needs a facelift. Safai suggested the exchange could start charging fees for market data and colocation. Rival exchanges Binance and FTX also support thriving options markets, for instance.
Historically, the centralized exchange has derived almost all of its profit from transaction fees and may have inadvertently neglected other sources of revenue, Safai said. That’s not for a lack of trying.
Earlier this year, the exchange launched a non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace in a bid to capture part of that growing market. But its effort was unpopular since launch, and, according to its earnings report, user growth fell from 9.2 million monthly active users to just 9 million this quarter.
As part of a wider effort to trim its budget, the exchange said it would be cutting back on its marketing spending. In June of this year, Coinbase laid off about 18% of its staff – about 1,100 employees.
“It’s still early days, and they need to spend a lot of money getting new users. Cutting your marketing budget, that’s going to make that hard,” Safai said.
Other headwinds include a marketwide trend to drop trading fees to zero, lack of interest among retail investors and regulatory uncertainty. Last month the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said nine tokens listed to trade on Coinbase were unregistered securities, as part of an investigation into insider trading allegations by a former employee at the firm.
Moreover, even though Coinbase appeared to be unaffected by the crypto contagion that spread from Voyager Digital, Three Arrows Capital and Celsius Network, those failures still “sucked a lot of leverage and assets out of the ecosystem.”
“Retail users, they're spooked by the failures, but they're also kind of seeing less to do [in crypto],” Safai said. “And so this is generally bad news.”
Moving forward, Safai said retail investors could become more comfortable as crypto moves toward regulation. He adds that Coinbase acquiring FairX is a smart move.
“By acquiring FairX, Coinbase now has a legit properly licensed futures platform,” he said. “But to do that, you have to invest a lot and they’re doing that, to say the least.”
Read more: SEC Probing Coinbase for Allegedly Listing Securities: Report"
150,1146,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/08/10/cloning-tornado-cash-would-be-easy-but-risky/,"Cloning Tornado Cash Would Be Easy, but Risky",The sanctioned Ethereum mixer’s code is open source. Anyone can copy and run it. The hard part: winning user trust – and staying out of the U.S. government’s crosshairs.,2022-08-10,"What’s stopping anyone from redeploying the Tornado Cash contract on a new, non-sanctioned address? Technically nothing. But there are a slew of reasons – legal and technical – why it may not be in an individual’s best interest to challenge the will of the U.S. government.
On Monday, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) took the unprecedented step of sanctioning the popular cryptocurrency transaction anonymizer. All U.S. “persons” are thus barred from interacting with this smart contract, and could face the type of penalties usually reserved for terrorist financiers or mob bosses if not in compliance.
Already there have been attempts to thwart what some see as an overzealous attempt to rein in the crypto industry. A pseudonymous crypto user is sending small ETH payments from a Tornado Cash wallet to high-profile crypto holders, making them inadvertently interact with a sanctioned entity (because crypto transactions cannot be refused) in what’s called a “dust attack.”
This article originally appeared in Valid Points, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter breaking down Ethereum’s evolution and its impact on crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
Industry think tank Coin Center, among others, is questioning the constitutionality of an outright ban of an open-source project. Members of the Tornado Cash Telegram channel are sharing advice on how to access the application through identity-protecting servers including the Brave and Tor browsers.
Others have noted that because Tornado Cash’s code is open source, and because Ethereum is a permissionless blockchain, it would be trivially easy to simply reconstruct the service. If you know how to copy and paste and know how to deploy a smart contract, you could be done by dinner.
There are many justifiable reasons someone would want to interact with Tornado, which until Monday was a legal and globally-accessible service. Ethereum, like many blockchains, makes transactions visible by default – meaning that anyone who would want to shield their financial history from employers, lovers or the world would have cause to “mix” their funds.
The U.S. government claims the platform was used to launder more than $7 billion worth of crypto since it launched in 2019. But analytics company Elliptic has only identified $1.5 billion worth of crypto filtered through Tornado tied to illicit acts like ransomware or hacks.
Moreover, the $7 billion figure the U.S. Treasury cited likely represents the total value of crypto sent through the vortex. (This is hardly scientific, but Etherscan creates word-clouds of names and labels associated with blockchain addresses and the one for Tornado Cash does say “phish/hack” but also “charity,” “maker vault owner” and something called “dragonereum tokenized asset” – which seems like a pretty neat visualization of a “general purpose technology.” You may not like everything about crypto, or understand it, but not all of it is nefarious.)
“If you were trying to disguise funds on Ethereum, now you have no real viable option,” Dublin University professor Paul Dylan-Ennis told CoinDesk. That sentiment was echoed by Gabagool.ETH, a prominent crypto degen and member of Info Token DAO.
“Tornado Cash was important not just because it worked (in theory) but because it was trusted, keys burned,” Gabagool told CoinDesk. Gabagool is referring to the destruction of the cryptographic keys needed to kick-start privacy-protecting applications, including messaging tools like PGP or blockchains like Monero.
This procedure, sometimes called “key shredding,” ensures that no one has access to the cryptographic keys needed to decrypt anonymized messages or transactions. Because it typically happens at the early stages of a project, sometimes before there are any users, you often simply have to have faith that this was done and that there are no “backdoors” for bypassing the encryption.
Shredding is so essential to the long-term viability of a project that it can take on a ceremonial aspect – like during the multi-day founding of privacy-oriented blockchain Zcash.
So, just because an alternate Tornado is running the same code doesn’t mean you can trust it. This would be all the more complicated considering there will likely be many Tornadoes that spring up, causing some market confusion.
Further, because Tornado Cash operated by tumbling transactions, the liquidity of the program had a direct bearing on whether it could successfully scramble the blockchain. If there were multiple Tornados, and no one could agree which was the “safe” one to use, they would all be less effective.
Or in Gabagool’s words, it’s likely people will redeploy the code, “but it’s not a true solve.” It’s also worth noting that because the project’s documentation was taken down from GitHub, the popular hosting service for open-source code, it would likely be difficult to retrieve.
Then there are the legal questions.
“It's really unclear what positions OFAC will take under their incredibly broad and vague authority,” Gabriel Shapiro, a prominent crypto lawyer, said in a direct message. “There is a reasonable argument that interacting with a new Tornado deployment is not covered by the sanction, but I wouldn't risk it,”
It seems likely that if you redeploy Tornado Cash you are taking on legal risk. And though the sanction document’s language is ambiguous regarding a possible redeployment, Coin Center’s Neeraj Agrawal said users probably would not be liable if they were to use an alternative Tornado.
“OFAC sanctioned a particular ‘service’ at particular addresses,” he said.
The following is an overview of network activity on the Ethereum Beacon Chain over the past week. For more information about the metrics featured in this section, check out our 101 explainer on Eth 2.0 metrics.
Disclaimer: All profits made from CoinDesk’s Eth 2.0 staking venture will be donated to a charity of the company’s choosing once transfers are enabled on the network.
Ian and Dylan Macalinao faked a DeFi ecosystem, temporarily inflating Solana’s TVL during the bull run last year.
WHY IT MATTERS: Ian Macalinao, the chief architect of Solana stablecoin exchange Saber, created a web of interlocking decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols that projected billions of dollars of double-counted value onto the Saber ecosystem. “I devised a scheme to maximize Solana’s TVL: I would build protocols that stack on top of each other, such that a dollar could be counted several times,” Ian wrote in a never-published blog post unearthed by CoinDesk. By Ian’s own count, the protocols he built comprised $7.5 billion of Solana’s $10.5 billion TVL at its peak. Read more here.
Vitalik Buterin played down the impact of any hard forks after the network’s Merge in September, while Tron founder Justin Sun has been an active supporter of a hard fork.
WHY IT MATTERS: Prominent Chinese miners like Chandler Guo have proposed a hard fork, so even as Ethereum undergoes the Merge and becomes validated by stakers, miners could continue to support a newly separated PoW version of the chain. Buterin said, “I don’t expect Ethereum to really be significantly harmed by another fork.” Poloniex, a crypto exchange backed by Sun, has offered support for the Ethereum fork, currently called EthereumPOW. Read more here.
Reddit partnered with FTX Pay to allow users to pay gas fees on transactions using community points.
WHY IT MATTERS: Reddit’s integration of FTX Pay enables users to purchase ether (ETH) directly on the app, “which then can be used to pay blockchain network fees for their Community Points transactions on-chain,” said the press release. Read more here.
The Reserve Bank of Australia started a pilot to explore the use cases of a central bank digital currency (CBDC).
WHY IT MATTERS: Australia’s central bank is researching the feasibility and possible technical design of a CBDC. “A question that has received less attention to date, especially in countries like Australia that already have relatively modern and well-functioning payment and settlement systems, is the use cases for a CBDC and the potential economic benefits of introducing one,” the central bank said. According to the announcement on Aug. 9, the project will take roughly a year to complete. Read more here.
Valid Points incorporates information and data about CoinDesk’s own Ethereum validator in weekly analysis. All profits made from this staking venture will be donated to a charity of our choosing once transfers are enabled on the network. For a full overview of the project, check out our announcement post.
You can verify the activity of the CoinDesk Eth 2.0 validator in real time through our public validator key, which is:
0xad7fef3b2350d220de3ae360c70d7f488926b6117e5f785a8995487c46d323ddad0f574fdcc50eeefec34ed9d2039ecb.
Search for it on any Eth 2.0 block explorer site!"
151,839,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/10/bye-bye-brokers-eu-tries-stock-trading-the-web3-way/,"Bye-bye Brokers: EU Tries Stock Trading, the Web3 Way",Subtitle not found,2022-08-10,"The European Union (EU) has had a busy few months defining crypto regulations, with its flagship licensing regime, the Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) regulation and controversial money-laundering controls both securing political deals meaning they’ll soon become law.
Alongside those, sits a lower-profile, temporary law that seeks to apply the innovations of distributed ledger technology (DLT) to financial market activities that mimic stock and bond trading, offering a more efficient way for the ordinary retail trader to get access to financial markets that are often closely guarded by incumbent players.
Under the law, financial-trading companies can pilot DLT tools to directly settle some trades without having to use an intermediary, saving time and money, potentially meaning retail investors in traditional markets get access that is cheaper, more direct and more efficient.
In practice it might just be financial-market incumbent behemoths able to take advantage, but Web 3 fans should still be cheering about the possibility of cutting out the middleman, CoinDesk has been told. No more dealing via brokers or other financiers – you might soon be able to get hands-on access.
“It’s not a revolution, but it's seeing that politicians in Europe and authorities in Europe are aware of their needs and are trying to do something about it,” João Vieira dos Santos, a law professor at the Universidade Lusófona in Lisbon, said. “It’s a very good thing for the European market.”
The EU agreed to this new pilot regime temporarily allowing DLT-based stock and bond trading earlier this year, and it takes effect in March 2023. Compared with MiCA – which introduces greater control over previously unregulated assets like stablecoins – the pilot seeks the exact opposite: streamlining the rules that apply to crypto tokens that resemble stocks or bonds, and so already fall under financial market law.
In the EU, just as elsewhere, financial trading is an alphabet soup of entities and regulations in which brokers, clearinghouses and trading venues of multiple kinds all play a part. Laws such as the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) and Central Securities Depository Regulation (CSDR) are designed to safeguard stability and prevent clients getting scammed.
Both crypto fans and conventional financiers wonder whether DLT could step in to simplify how stock trades get processed and registered, cutting out some of the intermediaries without compromising on safety. After all, blockchain is all about getting rid of centralized gatekeepers and giving people better, more direct access to finance.
Read more: FTX’s Bankman-Fried Pitches CFTC on Directly Clearing Customers’ Crypto Swaps
Across the pond, FTX.US’s Sam-Bankman Fried is seeking permission to be able to clear derivative contracts directly, rather than referring them to separate clearinghouses. His pitch to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to be allowed to short-circuit financial market rules in the name of efficiency is, perhaps predictably, being fiercely resisted by market incumbents like Chicago’s CME Group.
But in the EU, so far, attempts to get this off the ground have largely failed. The Luxembourg Stock Exchange allows security tokens – crypto versions of financial instruments such as bonds – to be included on its official list. But innovative assets can’t be admitted for trading on the exchange itself due to EU law.
In 2018, France’s ID2S sought to use DLT to disrupt the relatively staid market of securities depositories, the financial infrastructure that records when securities change hands. But by March of this year, the company had given up and asked regulators to withdraw its authorization.
“Though the financial sector got interested early on in this distributed ledger technology via experiments, those embarking on the industrial phase are a rarity,” said a 2021 report by the French central bank.
Read more: EU Set to Experiment With Blockchain-Based Stock, Bond and Fund Trading
The new pilot regime streamlines existing arrangements in two ways. It allows securities traders, including regular retail investors, to interact directly with the market – as, under current laws intended to halt mis-selling and malpractice, they have to do so via regulated intermediaries such as brokers.
It also allows exchanges to register the tokens themselves, rather than storing them in a separately regulated securities depository, something that helps realize Web3 ambitions, CoinDesk was told.
“Only one entity being responsible for all the market: This could be one step in the direction of the DeFi [Decentralized Finance] objectives,” said Vieira dos Santos, who serves as an adviser to the Portuguese Securities Market Commission and has written extensively about the plans.
Despite the good intentions of cutting red tape, in some areas the rules may achieve the opposite, Vieira dos Santos worries.
Retail investors trying to use the pilot without a broker will be subjected to a test set by the regulator to ensure they are knowledgeable about the products they buy. In practice, that could prove even more burdensome than existing procedures, which the slicker financial-trading apps like Robinhood can carry out swiftly and automatically.
Read more: Here's What Still Needs to Happen Before the EU's MiCA Bill Becomes Law
“Each national authority will assess in their own way,” Vieira dos Santos said. “It’s maybe too careful a step.”
Lawmakers’ caution might also mean that they miss out on another regulatory goal – allowing innovative DLT-based new entrants into the market. Innovative newcomers are given some legal shortcuts to help them get set up – but not many, and hefty capital requirements could prove too costly for smaller companies, he said. That could mean only established players like Nasdaq and Euronext can benefit, and only in larger EU jurisdictions such as France and Germany.
“There are a lot of blockchain companies that are interested … but it's going to be very difficult for them,” he said. “Maybe the only big entities will enter.”
Read more: U.K. Aims to Become Global Crypto Hub, Exchequer Says
Those problems may be compounded by the rigidity of the law. The experiment is limited to particular technologies, and to crypto versions of conventional financial instruments like securities and derivatives. That means it can’t adapt to new ideas like non-fungible tokens (NFTs), Ian Gauci, managing partner at law firm GTG Advocates and member of the Maltese Blockchain Task Force, told CoinDesk.
In “the normal exchange … that settles only securities, there is no space for other tokenized assets that do not conform to the existing financial services,” Gauci said. “NFTs would become captured only here if they are financial instruments.”
“What if, during this six year timeframe … even the concept of DLT… changes?” he said, adding that markets may in the future decide the Next Big Thing isn’t Web3, but instead some other innovation. “I’ve seen the hype … today it’s DLT, tomorrow it might be AI [Artificial Intelligence].”
Worse still, because it’s just a pilot – lasting for three years with an option to extend by another three – it could throttle the business case. Trading venues may not see returns repaid over that period, especially as they might have to keep their conventional system running in parallel.
“If you’re going to settle securities … using a particular DLT platform, would you invest in something like that for a mere three to six years?” Gauci said. “From the investment point of view, it leaves a lot of questions.”
For the time being, we still don’t know the exact details of the EU’s legal regime. The European Securities and Markets Authority is still consulting on its finer points, like how to apply for permission to run a pilot. (Guidance setting out exactly how carve-outs from current laws will work won’t be out until 2025.)
In the meantime, observers are looking at how the EU compares to the global competition. A June bill proposed by U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) and Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) included some text in this area, but it’s “not so organized and so comprehensible as the European proposals,” Vieira dos Santos said.
Gauci, meanwhile, is watching the U.K. – which has a new regulatory freedom post-Brexit and is committed to becoming a crypto hub.
The U.K. “has already issued an intention to issue a sandbox as well within this sector,” Gauci said. “It's already moving away from the EU regarding AI regulation … they can do it because they're out of the EU.”"
152,1138,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/12/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-slips-at-end-of-strong-week-huobi-founder-in-talks-to-sell-majority-stake/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Slips at End of Strong Week, Huobi Founder in Talks to Sell Majority Stake","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Aug. 12, 2022.",2022-08-12,"Price Point: After a strong week for the crypto market, bitcoin and ether both slip. Crypto entrepreneurs Sam Bankman-Fried and Justin Sun are in talks to buy a majority stake of Huobi Global in what could be one of the biggest deals ever in crypto.
Market Moves: The value of crypto derivative contracts traded rose 13.4% last month from June. That was the first uptick since March.
Chart of The Day: The broadest tightening cycle in history signals pain for risky assets.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Despite the crypto market showing some strength this week, bitcoin (BTC) was trading down on the day by 4%, while ether (ETH) declined by 2%.
Bitcoin hit a two-month high of $24,900 on Thursday, but now appears to be struggling for momentum.
Ether was up 10% on the week after the Ethereum blockchain had its third and final testnet ahead of the Merge. Ethereum Classic (ETC) and OKEx’s token, OKB, were both up 6% in the last 24 hours.
Bitcoin’s slower upward movement is in line with its declining dominance against altcoins. BTC dominance stands at about 40%, a decline from its recent high of 47% in June.
The decline in price for BTC on Friday might encourage some profit-taking over the weekend, according to Oanda analyst Craig Erlam.
“What's interesting about bitcoin at these levels is how little momentum there is in the rallies, which is going to make $25,000 very difficult to overcome,” Erlam wrote in a note on Friday.
“Is that a sign that we're seeing some profit-taking or that the correction has run its course and further downside pressure is on the horizon?” he added.
Traditional markets also had a good week, with the Nasdaq and S&P 500 both set to post their longest sequence of weekly gains since November.
In the news, Leon Li, founder of crypto exchange Huobi Global, is in talks to sell a majority stake in the company in a transaction that would value the firm at $3 billion or more, Bloomberg reported on Friday.
Li is looking to sell almost 60% of the firm, and has held preliminary talks with Justin Sun, founder of the Tron blockchain network, and FTX, the crypto exchange founded by billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried, CoinDesk’s Parikshit Mishra and Oliver Knight reported.
In a tweet, Sun denied any involvement.
Coinbase was in the news on Thursday, too, as credit ratings agency S&P Global said in a note that the outlook for the crypto exchange was ""negative.""
On Friday, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao said the exchange has frozen or recovered $450,000 in funds stolen from decentralized finance (DeFi) Curve.Finance earlier this week.
Crypto Derivative Trading Volume Rose for First Time in 4 Months as Market Rallied in July
By Omkar Godbole
The value of crypto derivative contracts traded rose 13.4% last month from June, the first uptick since March, CryptoCompare said.
The London-based data aggregator and index provider said $3.17 trillion worth of the contracts changed hands in July, while turnover in the spot market fell 1.34% to $1.39 trillion, the lowest level since December 2020. Spot trading volume on the Coinbase (COIN) crypto exchange, a venue preferred by institutional investors, declined 12.8% to $51.5 billion.
Unlike spot trading, trading derivatives offer leverage. While that allows investors to control a sizable contract value with a relatively small amount of money and increase their potential profits, it also increases their risk. Market observers consider derivatives market activity as a proxy for traders, or speculative interest, while the spot market is seen as representing long-term investors.
""The rise in derivatives trading volume indicates an increase in speculative activity as traders believe there is room for further upside in this rally, with no Federal Open Market Committee meeting scheduled for next month,"" CryptoCompare said in its monthly report. The rate-setting FOMC will meet in September, but not in August.
""The increase in derivatives trading volume was also amplified this month as traders speculated on the impact of the Ethereum Merge and potential hard forks on Ethereum,"" the report said of July.
The use of leverage, not spot market trading, fueled a crypto market rally in July that restored $240 billion in market capitalization. While leverage boosts returns, it exposes traders to forced liquidations by exchanges if the traders can't meet margin shortages. Therefore, derivatives-led rallies like July's often inject volatility into the market. That said, overall leverage still remains low compared with early 2021.
Another key takeaway from the report is that there was no shortage of people chasing stablecoins despite the collapse of Terra's UST stablecoin in May and the ensuing volatility in other cryptocurrencies with values pegged to the dollar or other fiat currencies.
CryptoCompare's report shows the volume for bitcoin-to-stablecoin tether (USDT) spot trading increased 31.5% to 8.78 million BTC in July. Bitcoin spot trading into binanceUSD (BUSD) surged 80.2% to 2.13 million BTC, surpassing bitcoin-to-U.S. dollar turnover for the first time on record.
""Investors continue to prefer safety under macroeconomic conditions,"" CryptoCompare noted about the pickup in bitcoin-to-stablecoin volume.
The crypto market valuation on Thursday rose to a two-month high of $1.17 trillion, extending July's recovery. Volume could pick up further in coming weeks as the supposedly bullish Ethereum Merge is due in mid-September.
Broadest Tightening Cycle in History Signals Pain for Risk Assets
By Omkar Godbole
The historically unprecedented synchronized monetary tightening across countries indicates that the path of least resistance for risky assets, including cryptocurrencies, is to the downside.
Markets haven't seen this kind of global tightening in decades. During the previous Federal Reserve rate hike cycle of late 2015 to late 2018, other major central banks held on to low rates and liquidity-pumping asset purchase programs, providing a cushion to risky assets.
Indian Authorities Freeze Nearly $46M Assets of Crypto Lender Vauld: The Peter Thiel-backed project filed for bankruptcy protection last month in Singapore.
Abrdn Buys Stake in Digital Exchange Archax: With the investment, the U.K. asset-management firm has become Archax's largest outside shareholder.
Netherlands Arrests Suspected Tornado Cash Developer: The country's Fiscal Information and Investigation Service hasn't ruled out making more arrests in the case."
153,840,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/12/huobi-founder-in-talks-to-sell-majority-stake-at-3b-valuation-report/,"Crypto Entrepreneurs Bankman-Fried, Sun in Talks to Buy Majority of Huobi Global Exchange: Report",The deal could be one of the biggest ever in the crypto industry.,2022-08-12,"Leon Li, founder of crypto exchange Huobi Global, is in talks to sell a majority stake in the company in a transaction that would value the firm at $3 billion or more, Bloomberg reported on Friday.
Li is looking to sell almost 60% of the firm, and has held preliminary talks with Justin Sun, founder of the Tron blockchain network, and FTX, the crypto exchange founded by billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried, the report said, citing people familiar with the matter.
In a tweet, Sun denied any involvement.
We have not engaged any matters related to the Bloomberg story at this moment.
Seychelles-based Huobi is one of the world's largest crypto exchanges with a daily trading volume of over $1 billion, according to CoinGecko.
The deal would be one of the biggest ever in the crypto industry. The downturn in the crypto market has forced many of the biggest firms in the industry to cut costs and jobs, but this could be the first instance that one of those firms sells a majority stake.
Huobi's existing investors, which includes ZhenFund and Sequoia China, were informed about Li’s decision during a shareholder meeting last month, the report added.
A deal could be completed as soon as the end of this month, the report noted. Li is seeking an overall valuation of $2 billion to $3 billion, which means that the stake sale could fetch upward of $1 billion, the report said.
FTX has made a slew of offers to acquire crypto companies during the recent market downturn, snapping up Japanese exchange Liquid in April before agreeing to acquire Canadian trading platform Bitvo two months later. It also has a deal in place to purchase lending platform BlockFi for up to $240 million.
FTX has also been eyeing up purchases of Celsius Network and Voyager Digital, both of which filed for bankruptcy in July.
After the Bloomberg report was published, Huobi's native token HT jumped nearly 25% to $5.43, hitting a high of $5.80.
Huobi Global, Tron and FTX didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.
UPDATE (Aug 12, 07:10 UTC): Updates headline. Adds additional details from the report, comment line and token movement.
UPDATE (Aug 12, 07:22 UTC): Updates headline.
UPDATE (Aug 12, 08:20UTC): Adds paragraph on FTX's recent interest in acquiring crypto companies.
UPDATE (Aug 12, 09:00UTC): Adds Justin Sun's tweet referencing the report."
154,496,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/18/first-mover-asia-celsius-token-price-rise-pegged-to-market-dynamics-rather-than-fundamentals-btc-retreats-again/,First Mover Asia: Celsius Token Price Rise Pegged to Market Dynamics Rather Than Fundamentals; BTC Retreats Again,"The price of the troubled crypto lending platform's CEL has been rising, to many observers' puzzlement; ether falls.",2022-08-18,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether have lost their momentum.
Insights: A recent surge in the price of the Celsius Network's CEL has puzzled many observers.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $23,433 −2.5%
●Ether (ETH): $1,845 −2.8%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,274.04 −0.7%
●Gold: $1,780 per troy ounce +0.4%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.89% +0.07
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Fall Again
By James Rubin
What happened to the rally?
Bitcoin and ether dropped for a fourth straight day as investors continued to puzzle over recent, often opposing economic indicators and corporate earnings reports. On Wednesday, markets wrestled with U.S. Federal Reserve's minutes from last month's meeting of its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which in central bankers' typically obtuse language indicated that the Fed would continue raising interest rates but seemed open to downward adjustments in the near future.
Cryptos already bleeding red initially responded with a big shrug.
BTC was recently trading at about $23,400, down about 2.5% over the past 24 hours and well off the $25,000 level it reached on Sunday for the first time since late spring. ETH was recently trading hands at about $1,850, off roughly 2.8% over the same period after topping $2,000 multiple times over the past week.
The second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has been soaring in recent weeks amid hot anticipation of the Merge, which will shift the Ethereum blockchain from proof-of-work to the faster, more energy efficient proof-of-stake protocol. Other cryptos were largely in the red. AAVE was down more than 8% at one point, and the popular meme coins, DOGE and SHIB, which had surged over the past few days, were each off more than 5%.
""In the last 24 hours, we've had a little bit of a pullback,"" Joe Orsini, director of research at Eaglebrook Advisors, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""When you consider the move that's been made with bitcoin up around 30% from June 18 lows, ether up about 115%, profit taking without FOMO, and some traders kind of taking some off the table makes sense. It doesn't change the long-term story [of] $25,000; regaining that level should provide some psychological positivity around the market.""
Orsini added: ""Things under the surface in the macro situation, have started to feel like they are improving. I wouldn't take too much into the short-term price action. We've had a great bounce. And let's see what could happen over this quarter.
Equities
Stocks also slogged through a dreary day with the technology-focused Nasdaq tumbling 1.2% and the S&P 500, which has a strong tech component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) declining 0.5% and 0.7%, respectively. Equity markets that have roared back to life amid faint hopes that the Federal Reserve's recent monetary hawkishness was subduing inflation without casting the economy into steep recession have lost momentum this week as investors chewed on the latest economic signs.
U.S. retail sales ticked up slightly in July, a reflection of falling gas prices that encouraged consumers to continue shopping despite ongoing inflation. The retail figure also suggests that even if the economy is slowing, it remains strong. Gas has fallen to $4 a gallon from $5 over the last month, a 20% decline.
Crypto news
The crypto industry continues to struggle with misleading and sometimes inaccurate information. Late Wednesday, the native token for Ethereum layer 2 blockchain Optimism briefly crashed in price on after Twitter-based rumors spread that its multisignature wallet had been hacked.
Optimism’s core team insisted there was no hack. Still, the OP token fell 10% in a matter of minutes at 5:15 p.m. ET, according to data from CoinMarketCap, before rebounding. On messaging platform Discord, the team clarified that the fund movements were preplanned Coinbase Custody-related transfers to investor wallets. The value of the funds transferred is around $450 million, according to Etherscan data. The token subsequently rebounded.
Other crypto news was mixed. Earlier in the day, a Ukraine senior official tweeted details of weapon purchases the government has made with some of the $60 million in crypto donated after Russia invaded the European nation earlier this year.
But a new academic study found that insider trading was a bigger issue than previously thought at cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase (COIN), suggesting market regulators seeking to police trading may have more work ahead of them. A giant like Coinbase listing a token can give cachet and dramatically boost liquidity for a token, causing its price to rise. Someone could – illegally – profit from that by purchasing a cryptocurrency before its listing is made public.
Eaglebrook's Orsini was upbeat about crypto's potential pricing, given institutional investors' growing interest in the asset. ""The technology continued to move uninterrupted throughout all of the problems block by block day by day, and that should be the consideration for true long-term investors again, three to five plus years out,"" he said.
CEL's Confounding Price Increase
By Shaurya Malwa
Celsius Network’s native CEL token has surged in price over the past few months despite the centralized lending platform facing ongoing troubles and continuing its pausing of user withdrawals.
Recent reports state that Celsius could run out of cash as early as October, which has dented recovery hopes among investors who stored their funds on the platform. A Tuesday filing, submitted to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York in advance of an upcoming hearing, also stated that the crypto lender holds $2.8 billion less in crypto than it owes to depositors.
The crypto lender filed for bankruptcy in July and said at the time it was working on recovery plans to make its users whole.
Against this backdrop, market participants would logically expect the company’s poor fundamentals should have led to a steep drop in CEL prices. Instead, the reverse has happened: CEL’s value has nearly doubled in the past 30 days and surged as much as 50% in the past week before a sell-off following Tuesday’s filing.
A short squeeze?
Still, there’s no, apparent strong reason for growth, analysts say. Pawel Laskarzewski, co-CEO of blockchain bridge platform Synapse Network, told CoinDesk that CEL tokens previously gained value in July after rumors of blockchain network Ripple and institutional bank Goldman Sachs (GS) wanting to buy Celsius gained traction among crypto participants.
“This led to huge speculation on the token and the token price increase as this built some confidence that the company will eventually survive,” Laskarzewski explained.
But Laskarzewski added that recent price movements were likely driven by a short squeeze. “The biggest factor that influenced the price in the last weeks was a short squeeze. Traders on FTX alone closed some 300,000 short positions in just two days between Aug 11 and 13,” Laskarzewski said. “Usually, short squeezes cause big corrections as they are not organic trades but panic ones – and we can see one right now – from $4.60 to $3.10.”
A short squeeze is a financial market term used to describe an asset’s prices moving sharply higher as market volatility prompts highly leveraged traders who bet its price would fall to buy that asset to avoid greater losses. This scenario leads to a price increase caused more by market activity than the asset’s fundamentals.
Dean Peng, vice president at crypto asset manager Metalpha, also stated that the price’s dislocations were likely caused by market dynamics rather than fundamentals.
“The contract price for late September settlement is at $2.60, which is more than 20% lower than the spot price earlier this week,” Pang said. “At the same time, the price of the perpetual contract is also lower than the spot price, and the negative rate has remained for some time.”
“It seems the market is retaining its negative judgment on Celsius' fundamentals,” the crypto trader added.
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia full- and part-time employment (July)
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. continuing jobless claims (Aug. 5)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
CFTC Commissioner Kristin Johnson on Crypto Regulation; Crypto Lender Celsius Gets Approval to Sell Mined Bitcoin
CFTC Commissioner Kristin N. Johnson joins ""First Mover"" to share her thoughts on the future of crypto regulation. Plus, crypto markets analysis from Joe Orsini of Eaglebrook Advisors. And Thomas Braziel of 507 Capital unpacks the second-day court hearing of the bankrupt crypto lender Celsius Network.
Dogecoin Jumps as Dogechain Gains Traction Among Retail Crypto Traders: The Polygon Edge-based Dogechain locks nearly $5 million in liquidity and is gaining prominence among retail crypto traders.
BitConnect Founder, Indicted in U.S. Over Missing Bitcoin, Is Now Wanted in India Too: Satish Kumbhani and six others were named by an unidentified lawyer in a complaint over missing bitcoin.
Kenya's Crypto Crowd Hopes President-Elect Will Be Better Than Predecessor: Being the younger candidate and the one with a youth-friendly campaign, William Ruto is expected to be more crypto positive, locals hope.
Crypto Broker Genesis Cutting 20% of Workforce as CEO Michael Moro Exits: Moro is to be replaced on an interim basis by Chief Operating Officer Derar Islim.
Why Athletes Are Taking Compensation in Bitcoin: From UFC to soccer, sportspeople continue to see the attraction of BTC, despite the faltering market. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sports Week.
Other voices: Why hackers are able to steal billions of dollars worth of cryptocurrency (Washington Post)
""🚨 New info from the Netherlands agency that arrested tornado cash developer Alexey Pertsev. We wanted to get this *troubling* statement from the FOID out there (which raises more questions than it answers) while we're chasing down more info + assessing next steps"" (DeFi Education Fund) ... ""So the explanation went from: * ""involvement in concealing criminal financial flows"" to *personally profiting (according to the Dutch version) to * developing a tool solely for committing criminal acts?"" (CoinDesk's managing editor for policy and regulation)"
155,726,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/18/cash-backed-husd-stablecoin-loses-peg-drops-to-092/,"Cash-Backed HUSD Stablecoin Loses Peg, Drops to 92 Cents",The stablecoin is trading as low as 89 cents against USDC on Curve Finance.,2022-08-18,"The HUSD stablecoin, which is issued by Stable Universal, has fallen to 92 cents, an 8% drop from its planned $1 peg, according to CoinMarketCap prices.
It is trading as low as 89 cents against the USDC stablecoin on decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol Curve Finance. The so-called depeg occurred 16 days after crypto exchange FTX removed HUSD from its basket of support USD stablecoins.
A stablecoin is a cryptocurrency designed to hold its value against another asset. This can be in the form of algorithmic stablecoins or reserve-backed coins, of which HUSD is an example. The stablecoin sector has been under intense regulatory scrutiny this year following the implosion of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST), which saw $18.71 billion evaporate alongside the collapse of Terra's LUNA token.
A year ago, HUSD published a breakdown of reserves that showed every issued token was backed by U.S. dollars held in cash in money market accounts. At press time HUSD has a market cap of $149.5 million.
HUSD is issued by Stable Universal and can be redeemed on a 1:1 basis against the U.S. dollar, according to the company's website.
Typically, when redemptions are live the price will gravitate toward the peg because if it's lower, traders can purchase tokens at a discount on an exchange and redeem for a full dollar through the company's website.
Stable Universal did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment."
156,1098,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/08/22/ronin-hackers-converted-some-stolen-ether-to-bitcoin-slowmist-researcher/,Ronin Hackers Converted Some Stolen Ether to Bitcoin: SlowMist Researcher,The exploiters converted their ill-gotten gains initially to ether and then to bitcoin before using sanctioned mixers to mask their identities.,2022-08-22,"A researcher at security firm SlowMist has stated that the attackers behind this year’s $625 million Ronin bridge exploit converted part of their stolen funds from ether (ETH) to bitcoin (BTC) and used sanctioned privacy mixers to mask their identities further.
The March exploit affected Ronin validator nodes for Sky Mavis, the publisher of the popular Axie Infinity game, and the Axie DAO, with attackers stealing some 173,600 ether and 25.5 million in USDC.
The attacker “used hacked private keys in order to forge fake withdrawals” from the Ronin bridge across two transactions, according to a blog posted at the time, as previously reported.
SlowMist’s “blitezero” said in a tweet that some 6,249 ether converted by the attacker through Tornado Cash was sent to crypto exchange Huobi, where it was exchanged for bitcoin, and 5,028 ether was sent to FTX on March 28.
Read more: Ronin Attack Shows Cross-Chain Crypto Is a ‘Bridge’ Too Far
Some 439 bitcoin, or US$20.5 million at current rates, held at Huobi were then sent to bitcoin privacy tool Blender. Blender is a privacy tool that masks user addresses to make transactions more private and became the first-ever bitcoin mixer to get sanctioned by the U.S. government in May.
Blitezero added that most Blender addresses sanctioned by the U.S. government were the same deposit addresses used by Ronin hackers.
The hack was ultimately linked to the infamous North Korean hacker group Lazarus.
Meanwhile, the researcher added that over 113,000 ether sent to Tornado Cash was additionally converted to renBTC, a token on the Ethereum network that represents bitcoin, through decentralized exchanges Uniswap and 1inch. The renBTC was later transferred from Ethereum to Bitcoin and redeemed for spot bitcoin."
157,838,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/08/24/ethereum-proof-of-work-forks-gift-or-grift/,Ethereum Proof-of-Work Forks: Gift or Grift?,"Ethereum will soon transition to a more energy-efficient system for processing transactions, but prominent crypto personalities are hell-bent on keeping the proof-of-work version of the chain alive. Why?",2022-08-24,"Ethereum is finally set to embark on its long-awaited transition to proof-of-stake. With this major update slated to happen sometime next month, controversy and questions abound around what will happen to the deprecated proof-of-work network post-Merge.
In spite of the fact that the “Ice Age” is supposed to freeze out PoW miners with its “difficulty bomb,” there is a growing movement to keep Ethereum’s old consensus mechanism alive.
This article originally appeared in Valid Points, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter breaking down Ethereum’s evolution and its impact on crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
In 2016, Ethereum’s community was in crisis. An exploiter ran away with around 5% of all ether (ETH) in circulation, and the nascent ecosystem was gripped by controversy: How should Ethereum proceed? The result was a “hard fork” – a backwards-incompatible code change that created a new instance of the network – one where token balances were adjusted as if the infamous “The DAO exploit” never happened.
But not everyone was on board. A subset of anti-fork purists – along with some of Ethereum’s chief trolls and detractors – continued to operate the old, hack-tainted chain under the moniker of “Ethereum Classic.” The spin-off chain was hollowed out of its community, but it nonetheless vied with its sister network to be the true heir to the Ethereum throne. And it may have gotten close to its goal: ETC, the version of ether (ETH) on the Classic network, briefly seemed like it might flip ETH in value.
Ethereum Classic’s bid for blockchain dominance ultimately failed, but it nonetheless set the stage for years of grifts, confusion and debate.
And now, history repeats.
On Sept. 15 (or thereabouts) Ethereum will finally, at long last, they swear this time, initiate its transition to a proof-of-stake (PoS) system. The much-postponed upgrade, which has been on Ethereum’s roadmap since its inception, will dramatically cut the chain’s carbon footprint in favor of a new system that proponents hope will also make the network more secure.
But not everyone is excited for PoS. Some of Ethereum’s miners – those who run computers to process and validate transactions on the current proof-of-work (PoW) network – plan to keep the old network up and running.
Read more: Who Will Mine Ethereum After It’s Gone?
Without Ethereum’s users and core developers, this forked network will be a crypto “uncanny valley.” It will look and feel like Ethereum, but it will only be a skeleton of the real thing, with apps and tokens floating around without usage or value.
Things will break. Grifters will grift. But the movement behind a forked PoW Ethereum appears inevitable.
The virtues of PoS over Ethereum’s current PoW consensus mechanism are a matter of heated debate. We won’t get into the nitty-gritty of that debate here, but the essential part to understand is that a consensus mechanism is the set of rules by which nodes – the computers operating Ethereum’s blockchain – process transactions.
As long as they meet certain requirements, computers can compete to issue blocks of transactions on the Ethereum blockchain. As a reward for doing so, they receive a payout, typically a mix of transaction fees and an allotment of newly issued crypto.
PoW and PoS differ in how they select who can issue blocks. PoW, the system spearheaded by Bitcoin and currently used by Ethereum, accomplishes this task using “miners.” For the privilege of adding the next block to the chain, miners compete to solve a kind of cryptographic puzzle – basically a race to find some random number.
PoS forgoes mining and instead passes the responsibility of block-issuance to so-called validators. One can become a validator by locking up 32 ether as a “stake” on the Ethereum blockchain. The more ether one stakes, the more likely one will be randomly selected to issue the next block.
PoS advocates say PoW is energy-inefficient and biases control of the network to companies who can afford to run expensive, mining-optimized computers called ASICs. PoW adherents say PoS is less proven than PoW and holds its own centralization and security risks.
Whatever the inherent advantages and disadvantages of each system, Ethereum, if all goes to plan, will switch to PoS come September. But what’s to happen to all the PoW miners who invested in that fancy mining hardware? And what about those who think that PoW, despite its flaws, is more secure than PoS?
Not everyone with a vested (or ideological) interest in PoW Ethereum plans to give up on the old mechanism. And why should they? This is crypto, and where some see a fork, others see dollar signs.
Prominent crypto personalities including Justin Sun and Chandler Guo have both announced their intent to support Ethereum PoW forks, and crypto exchanges like FTX and Sun-backed Poloniex say they will allow users to trade forked ether tokens.
Rather than a single piece of software, Ethereum – a network of computers – is better thought of as a nation-state, with a set of rules governing how it operates. If a bunch of people agree on changing the rules, the entire network doesn’t suddenly “update.” They’ll need to convince other people to jump on board.
Sometimes, these rule changes lead to a fork, where two (or more) new networks spring up with slight operational differences – each supported by some subset of the community.
At a high level, the PoW forks described by Sun and Guo will be exact duplicates of the main Ethereum chain, where the “state” of the original chain – meaning transaction history and token balances – is preserved.
At the moment of the Merge to PoS, users will suddenly have access to two (or more) different blockchains with identical token balances and smart contracts (the mini computer programs that run on Ethereum’s blockchain).
But does a forked Ethereum mean all of your money will suddenly double (or triple, or quadruple, depending on the number of forks)? No, not really.
Tokens are only worth as much as the market dictates. Certain tokens – particularly the ether used to pay for transaction fees – could have some value on PoW forks. Plus, crypto’s meme-driven markets are no stranger to baseless speculation.
But not all of the apps and services built atop Ethereum’s soon-to-be-PoS network will support PoW forks, and in most cases, the lack of active community support will break the mechanism by which tokens derive their ostensible value.
Take, for instance, stablecoins like USDT and USDC – neither of which appear likely to receive support on PoW Ethereum forks.
These tokens are core to Ethereum’s decentralized finance ecosystem owing to the fact that they are, unlike the volatile ethers and bitcoins of the world, “pegged” to the price of $1. They trade at this price because their issuing authorities claim to have $1 in the bank for every digital dollar they put into circulation.
You cannot merely duplicate your balance of USDC and USDT onto a new blockchain. The 1:1 backing will only exist for the officially recognized instance of a digital dollar – the one that exists on the canonical, soon-to-be-PoS blockchain. As such, holding USDC or USDT on an Ethereum PoW fork will be like holding counterfeit money.
The lack of stablecoin support on Ethereum PoW forks will have broad consequences for the ability of other forked tokens to retain value. USDC and USDT are used as collateral throughout DeFi. If and when these tokens on the PoW chain stop trading at $1, they’ll set off a cascading effect that will – in combination with other factors – render most other forked tokens virtually worthless.
Ethereum’s PoW forks will, at least initially, be like China’s vast ghost cities – the foundations will be there, but absent any signs of life.
So why would anyone breathe life into an empty, copycat blockchain?
Kevin Zhou of Galois Capital has been one of the loudest voices on Twitter predicting that PoW forks will proliferate after Ethereum’s Merge to PoS.
In a podcast interview with crypto journalist and author Laura Shin, Zhou explained, “There’s really two classes of incentives.”
“The first,” said Zhou, “is pure grift.”
“Someone could just make a fork – they know it's probably not going to work, and they don’t plan to support it. They’re just going to get some free coins … and then just dump them,” Zhou told Shin.
Hasu, a researcher at Ethereum infrastructure firm Flashbots and prominent voice in crypto circles, has called the idea of Ethereum PoW forks that duplicate the original chain’s ledger a “completely stupid idea.”
“Crypto is full of bad projects that only exist to dump on retail,” he tweeted, “but that doesn't make it OK to support them. [T]he fact that ghost chains like ETC [Ethereum Classic] still exist does not vindicate that point.”
But Zhou – in contrast to Hasu and most of the wider crypto community – doesn’t think all PoW forks will be thinly veiled cash grabs.
Ethereum miners raked in over $600 million last month in rewards and transaction fees. If miners want to put their expensive hardware to use on a new chain, Zhou thinks they could do worse than an Ethereum PoW fork.
“There’s a lot of infrastructure that somebody built out. Nobody’s operating it, but there’s a lot of infrastructure still there. Is that better than other [layer 1 blockchains]? Is that better than Ethereum Classic? I think you can make a good argument that it is,” Zhou said.
Speaking at the ETH Seoul conference earlier this month, Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin waved away concerns that PoW Ethereum forks – grift or not – might eat into activity on Ethereum’s PoS mainnet.
Describing “pretty much everyone” in the Ethereum community as “unified” around the switch to PoS, Buterin pointed to his one-time-nemesis, Ethereum Classic, which will remain PoW, as “the superior product for people with those pro-proof-of-work values and preferences.”
Buterin’s about-face on the early Ethereum fork shows just how small a threat it has become in the years following its divisive introduction.
Ethereum Classic has seen recent investment from miners who think it will attract PoW adherents after Ethereum ditches PoS, but activity on the problem-prone chain pales in comparison to the rest of Ethereum.
Whatever your view on PoW, what happens next will be confusing, and it may even be entertaining, but – if the example of Ethereum Classic is anything to go by – it is unlikely to mean much for Ethereum as a whole.
The following is an overview of network activity on the Ethereum Beacon Chain over the past week. For more information about the metrics featured in this section, check out our 101 explainer on Eth 2.0 metrics.
Disclaimer: All profits made from CoinDesk’s Eth 2.0 staking venture will be donated to a charity of the company’s choosing once transfers are enabled on the network.
Client diversity on Ethereum’s consensus layer has improved.
WHY IT MATTERS: Earlier in the year, consensus client Prysm was used by more than 66% of all Beacon Chain validators, but now Prysm accounts for 37.89% of validator market share, according to data provided by Sigma Prime’s Blockprint. Currently, 33.36% of all validators use consensus client Lighthouse, 15.71% of validators use Teku, and 12.99% of validators use Nimbus. Client diversity is critical for a resilient network; with increased client diversity, the network becomes more decentralized. Read more here.
Uniswap blocked 253 crypto addresses allegedly linked to stolen funds or to Tornado Cash.
WHY IT MATTERS: The decentralized exchange is complying with U.S. Treasury Dept. sanctions and is blacklisting 253 addresses known to be linked to sanction violations, according to GitHub data cited by Yearn Finance developer “Banteg.” Even though the blocked crypto addresses cannot use the Uniswap website, the addresses can continue to use Uniswap’s smart contracts, a decentralized service that exists on the Ethereum blockchain. Read more here.
Coinbase faces a putative class action lawsuit.
WHY IT MATTERS: Filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, the class action lawsuit against the crypto exchange alleges that Coinbase failed to properly secure customers’ accounts, leaving them vulnerable to theft and unauthorized transfers. The Georgia lawsuit represents a class of more than 100 people. The recent lawsuit is not unique as Coinbase is facing a string of lawsuits from unhappy investors. Read more here.
Sepolia becomes the first Ethereum testnet to get a post-merge upgrade.
WHY IT MATTERS: Sepolia, an Ethereum test network that successfully merged with its proof-of-stake beacon chain on July 6, went through an upgrade on its Execution Layer at block 1,735,371. Parithosh Jayanthi, a DevOps engineer at the Ethereum Foundation, told CoinDesk that “the upgrade is there just to clear up any dead nodes in the system.” Upgrades to Ethereum test networks – even small ones – are important steps in ensuring that the new proof-of-stake protocol runs smoothly. Read more here.
FTX posted 1.02 billion in revenue last year, jumping 1,000% from $89 million in the prior year.
WHY IT MATTERS: FTX also posted net income of $388 million in 2021, up from just $17 million in 2022. The bulk of FTX’s revenue comes from derivatives trading, while about 16% came from crypto spot trading in 2021. The report gives a window into the revenue generated by one of the larger, privately held crypto exchanges. Read more here.
Valid Points incorporates information and data about CoinDesk’s own Ethereum validator in weekly analysis. All profits made from this staking venture will be donated to a charity of our choosing once transfers are enabled on the network. For a full overview of the project, check out our announcement post.
You can verify the activity of the CoinDesk Eth 2.0 validator in real time through our public validator key, which is:
0xad7fef3b2350d220de3ae360c70d7f488926b6117e5f785a8995487c46d323ddad0f574fdcc50eeefec34ed9d2039ecb.
Search for it on any Eth 2.0 block explorer site."
158,493,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/25/binance-ftx-among-crypto-players-in-hunt-to-buy-voyager-digital-assets-as-coinbase-backs-out-sources/,"Binance, FTX Among Crypto Players in Hunt to Buy Voyager Digital Assets as Coinbase Backs Out: Sources","Crypto lender Voyager’s collapse into bankruptcy was a milestone in this year’s crypto market crisis. Now, some of the industry’s biggest players are trying to buy its assets.",2022-08-25,"CORRECTION (Aug. 25, 2022, 20:40 UTC) – Updated to correct the dates when bids for Voyager are due and when any resulting auction would take place. The story previously gave the dates as they were before a revision Wednesday.
Voyager Digital, the lender whose collapse into bankruptcy worsened this year’s crypto market crisis, is attracting takeover interest from some of the biggest players in the space including exchanges Binance and FTX, according to people familiar with the matter. U.S.-based exchange Coinbase (COIN) evaluated a deal but withdrew, one person said.
Bids for Voyager assets are due Sept. 6 in a sale process taking place through its bankruptcy case. An auction, if needed to pick a winner, would follow on Sept. 29. Voyager Digital's native coin voyager (VGX) surged more than 40% after CoinDesk reported the story, according to CoinMarketCap.
According to a presentation from the company’s lawyers earlier this month, at least 22 investors had gone through due diligence and indicated their interest in bidding for Voyager’s assets, so Binance, FTX and Coinbase are likely not the only suitors.
Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange, is keen to purchase Voyager, according to industry sources who have learned of the company’s interest. “Binance is excited and pursuing hard,” one of the people said. The exchange is “pushing hard on buying into institutional,” a second person said.
“We have a policy to only disclose deals after they are complete and cannot confirm or deny any potential deals,” a Binance spokesperson said. In an interview with the New York Times published last week, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao said Voyager – as well as Celsius Network, another crypto lender in bankruptcy – had approached his company to discuss selling assets. “Our team’s engaging in all of those conversations,” he said in the interview.
Read more: Crypto Lender Voyager Digital Has Received Several Purchase Offers Higher Than FTX’s: Report
FTX, which publicly made an offer last month that Voyager’s lawyers slapped down, remains in the running, according to a person with direct knowledge of the crypto exchange’s plans.
An FTX spokesperson declined to comment.
Coinbase’s involvement was in the form of a potential partnership with Callaway Capital Management, a Washington, D.C.-based firm that specializes in distressed assets. Coinbase, the largest U.S. crypto exchange, evaluated a possible restructuring plan for Voyager but backed out after concluding “the financials don’t add up,” according to a person with direct knowledge of the company’s thinking.
A Coinbase spokesperson declined to comment.
Callaway didn’t respond to requests for comment by press time. Moelis, Voyager’s investment bank, declined to comment. Voyager’s bankruptcy law firm Kirkland & Ellis didn’t respond to a request for comment by press time.
Read more: Crypto Lender Voyager Can Pay Employees 'Retention' Bonuses, US Judge Rules
Voyager’s collapse was one of the key moments of this year’s crypto crisis. Plunging crypto prices spooked customers of lenders like Voyager, prompting a bank run as too many clients at once tried to withdraw their funds. Voyager halted withdrawals and then filed for bankruptcy.
That turned its customers – and those of Celsius – into company creditors in bankruptcy court, forced to get in line with sophisticated restructuring lawyers and financiers as novice participants in a potentially laborious process to get their funds back.
Cheyenne Ligon contributed reporting to this story.
UPDATE (Aug. 25, 2022, 19:24 UTC): Updates to add Voyager Token's performance."
159,304,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/25/ftx-ventures-denies-report-that-its-merging-with-alameda-researchs-crypto-vc-business/,FTX Ventures Denies Report That It's Merging With Alameda Research's Crypto VC Business,Bloomberg had reported that the two operations would merge their venture capital businesses.,2022-08-25,"Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX Ventures denied a Bloomberg report Thursday that the venture capital arm of FTX and the VC operations of sister company Alameda Research would be merging.
The report said the move was made to consolidate parts of Bankman-Fried's empire during the extended decline in crypto prices, but both FTX Ventures chief Amy Wu and Bankman-Fried said it was inaccurate that the two groups were merging.
""The two entities, Alameda and FTX Ventures, did not merge,"" Wu told CoinDesk via Telegram. ""Sam decided to launch FTX Ventures as a new fund and investment strategy [at the] beginning of the year because we felt there was a great opportunity to support entrepreneurs in the space our own way.""
Shortly after the publication of the article, Bankman-Fried tweeted that Bloomberg's headline ""seems like a big misrepresentation to me!""
this seems like a big misrepresentation to me!

FTX has been doing more venture recently, and I guess maybe Alameda has been doing less? That's a really different thing than what the headline implies! https://t.co/qQUCOHtIUg
As a venture capital investor, Alameda has backed a large number of crypto startups, including non-fungible token marketplace Magic Eden and Anchorage Digital. Meanwhile, FTX Ventures raised $2 billion in funding in January.
The latest news comes a day after Alameda Research's co-CEO, Sam Trabucco, stepped down into an advisory role, leaving Caroline Ellison as the sole CEO.
Read more: FTX Posted $1 Billion in Revenue Last Year Amid Crypto Rally: Report
UPDATE (August 25, 21:38 UTC): Headline and story updated to reflect FTX Venture's comments and Bankman-Fried's tweet."
160,1094,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/26/first-mover-asia-a-bear-market-survival-strategy-for-crypto-miners-bitcoin-ether-prices-remain-in-holding-pattern/,"First Mover Asia: A Bear Market Survival Strategy for Crypto Miners; Bitcoin, Ether Price Remains in Holding Pattern",Some miners are earning more by selling power capacity back to the grid than through mining bitcoin; crypto markets await Fed Chair Jerome Powell's Friday speech.,2022-08-26,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Thursday offered the latest episode of crypto sideways trading this week.
Insights: Some crypto miners are selling power capacity to offset the loss of revenue in the current bear market.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $21,438 −0.9%
●Ether (ETH): $1,663 −2.1%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,199.12 +1.4%
●Gold: $1,771 per troy ounce +0.7%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.03% −0.08
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Remain in Their Recent Holding Patterns
By James Rubin
A day before Jerome Powell's long-awaiting address at the Federal Reserve's conclave in Wyoming, bitcoin idled in roughly the same place it has held for much of the week – comfortably above $21,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently trading at about $21,500, roughly flat over the past 24 hours as nervous investors continued their vigil for the U.S. central bank chair's comments Friday that might hint at the Fed's next interest rate hike. Several central bank governors talked to media outlets but offered few clues on whether the bank will continue its current hawkishness by approving another 75 basis point hike (which would likely send asset markets – crypto and traditional – spiraling) or ratchet back the rate to a more moderately aggressive 50 points.
""People are going to be looking for some sort of dovish tilt and if we don't get it, it could be kind of ugly,"" said Matthew Tuttle, CEO and chief investment officer of exchange-traded fund provider Total Capital Management.
Ether continued its recent pattern of outperforming bitcoin. The second-largest crypto in market capitalization was recently trading just below $1,700, up more than a percentage point over the same period. Other major altcoins were mixed, with popular meme coin SHIB and CVC each recently rising more than 6% but EOS and KNC off over 2% and 1%, respectively.
Still, cryptocurrencies related to non-fungible tokens (NFT) and the metaverse have underperformed over the past week, a result of sagging sentiment about the NFT market. The Flow network’s FLOW token, which can be used to build NFTs and decentralized applications (dapps), slumped 20% during the past seven days. FLOW’s decline was the second largest during that period among 52 cryptocurrencies with a market cap over $1 billion, according to crypto data and analysis firm Messari.
Other NFT and metaverse-related tokens that have sunk include AXS, GALA, MANA and GMT, which all fell between 14% and 20%.
Equities
Equity indexes closed higher after the U.S. Commerce Department released data showing that the economy contracted at a lower rate in the second quarter than preliminary estimates indicated. The tech-focused Nasdaq, the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) all climbed at least one percent. Investors were also buoyed by a slight decline in jobless claims underscoring the continued resilience of the economy. Oanda senior market analyst Edward Moya called the most recent indicators ""the perfect appetizer for Friday’s hawkish Fed Chair Powell speech.""
Moya added that ""there is still a chance that this unbalanced economy will get a soft landing and that should prevent stocks from seeing severe downward pressure.""
In crypto industry news, Voyager Digital, the lender whose collapse into bankruptcy worsened this year’s crypto market crisis, is attracting takeover interest from some of the biggest players in the space including exchanges Binance and FTX, according to people familiar with the matter.
And Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX Ventures denied a Bloomberg report Thursday that the venture capital arm of FTX and the VC operations of sister company Alameda Research would be merging.
Total Capital's Tuttle warily noted that bitcoin's price remains ""below all the major moving averages.""
""It looks like a bear flag,"" he said. ""We're seeing ""some support around that 20,800 level. If the market doesn't hear what it wants to hear on Friday, that's where crypto heads. If the market hears what it wants to hear, we're moving back up.""
A Bear Market Survival Strategy for Some Crypto Miners
By Aoyon Ashraf
The continued bear market has battered crypto miners more than other companies as their main revenue comes from mining the digital assets. Now, miners may have found a different way to offset some of their losses – selling power back to the grid.
Crypto miners consume tremendous amounts of energy to mine their digital assets, and power cost is the main variable to their profit margins. With the price of bitcoin down more than 50% this year and power costs rising, their margins have shrunk significantly.
However, some miners are now actually getting paid to shut down operations and release electricity capacity back to the grid during peak demand periods, while lowering their power cost.
“The ability for some mining companies to either generate power to sell to the grid or perform demand-response gives them an additional profitability option,” said Ethan Vera, chief operating office of the full-stack bitcoin (BTC) mining software and services provider Luxor Tech.
Riot and Mawson
Most recently, one of the largest bitcoin miners, Riot Blockchain (RIOT), said it earned an estimated $9.5 million in power credits by shuttering its mining operations in Texas during an extreme heat wave. The miner said it lowered its power cost significantly using this strategy.
Another bitcoin miner, Mawson Infrastructure (MIGI), said it generated $1.8 million in unaudited revenue by engaging in similar types of strategy as Riot. “When energy prices are low, Mawson engages in bitcoin mining and generates revenue by selling self-mined bitcoin daily, as it has from inception,” the miner said in a statement. “When energy prices are high, and where available, Mawson engages in Energy Demand Response Programs, receiving revenue and reducing overall energy costs,” it added.
One caveat to this strategy is that a miner must have a fixed-price purchasing power agreement, rather than buying electricity in the spot market. For example, Argo Blockchain (ARBK) said that unlike Riot, it wasn’t able to participate in demand response in Texas as it has been paying spot market prices, which have been higher in recent months.
However, miners who can take advantage of this strategy during summer's heat, could benefit significantly even as the bear market continues. “In the current environment mining economics have fallen, while energy prices have soared, making it an opportune time for these miners to sell power to the grid. In many cases miners can make over double per kWh by selling power rather than mining,” Luxor’s Vera said.
9 p.m. HKT/SGT(11 a.m. UTC): Fed Chair Jerome Powell speech at Economic Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
4 p.m. HKT/SGT(8 a.m. UTC): Europe M3 money supply (July/3M/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Continues Holding Pattern Over $21K; The Sandbox Co-Founder on Metaverse Outlook
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) traded sideways a day before Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's speech at Jackson Hole. Plus, ""First Mover"" had a conversation with The Sandbox co-founder Sebastien Borget about the future of the metaverse and Alpha Season 3.
Crypto Exchange CoinSwitch Kuber Searched by Indian Authorities: Source: Five premises tied to CoinSwitch Kuber are reportedly being searched.
Ex-S. Korean Finance Minister Yong-Beom Kim Appointed as CEO of Hashed Open Research: The research arm of crypto venture capital fund Hashed is looking to bridge the gap between the blockchain industry and the South Korean government.
Polygon Founder’s Crypto VC Firm Raises $50M Fund: Symbolic Capital plans to back early-stage Web3 projects
Ether Leads Crypto Recovery on Merge Confirmation, but Traders Remain Cautious: Buying ether ahead of the Merge is likely an overextended play, one trader said.
Afghan Authorities Shut Down 16 Crypto Exchanges in One Week: Report: Police reportedly closed the exchanges and arrested their staff after Afghanistan's central bank stated that digital currency trading should be stopped, citing problems and scams.
BitBoy Lost His Lawsuit the Instant He Filed It: The YouTube cryptocurrency promoter is only drawing more attention to the pump and dump-filled oeuvre he'd rather suppress. (He has since decided to drop the defamation lawsuit.)
Other voices: Crypto’s massive marketing efforts have drawn few new investors (The Washington Post)
Today marks a new phase in the Collectible Avatars journey. One that may finally answer the question, “What are all these internet points good for?” Starting today, we will begin air-dropping Collectible Avatars to our top community builders… for free. To thank top karma earners for the contributions they've made to their Reddit communities, qualifying redditors will be able to choose from four distinct new styles of Collectible Avatars: Aww Friends. Drip Squad. Meme Team. The Singularity Keep an eye on your feed to see if you qualify, and find your avatar squad! (Reddit) ... this seems like a big misrepresentation to me! FTX has been doing more venture recently, and I guess maybe Alameda has been doing less? That's a really different thing than what the headline implies! (Sam Bankman-Fried)"
161,1093,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/30/singapore-state-investor-temasek-to-lead-100m-funding-round-in-animoca-brands-report/,Temasek to Lead $100M Funding Round in NFT and Metaverse Investor Animoca Brands: Report,"The sovereign wealth fund, whose net portfolio value stood at $403 billion in March, has been an active investor in the crypto industry.",2022-08-30,"Singapore's state investment fund, Temasek, which is one of the world's largest investors, is leading a $100 million funding round in non-fungible token (NFT) and metaverse investor Animoca Brands, Bloomberg reported Monday.
The investment will be made via convertible bonds, according to the report, which cited people familiar with the matter.
The Singaporean sovereign wealth fund, whose net portfolio value stood at $403 billion as of March, has been an active investor in the crypto industry, leading a $200 million round in liquidity provider and market maker Amber Group in February. It also joined crypto exchange FTX.US'smammoth $400 million Series A round in January.
Animoca raised $75 million in July in a round that was led by existing investors Liberty City Ventures, 10T and Kingsway Capital in the second tranche of a January funding that brought in almost $360 million.
The Hong Kong-based company's portfolio contains more than 150 NFT-related projects, including trading platform OpenSea and Dapper Labs, the developer of NBA Top Shot.
Temasek's investment demonstrates that despite the challenging and uncertain conditions in the digital asset markets, major investment entities remain bullish on the prospects of the more established firms in the industry such as Animoca.
Neither Temasek nor Animoca immediately responded to requests for comment.
Read more: Animoca Brands' Japan Unit Raises $45M for NFT Licensing, Investment"
162,723,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/30/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-holds-20k-level-altcoins-recover-as-market-sentiment-improves/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Holds $20K Level; Altcoins Recover as Market Sentiment Improves,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Aug. 30, 2022.",2022-08-30,"Price Point: As investor sentiment began to stabilize Tuesday, bitcoin held the $20,000 level while altcoins Ether and Avalanche's AVAX rose.
Market Moves: Both ether and bitcoin's perpetual futures open interest ratios stood at lifetime highs above 0.03 and 0.02 at press time. ""The rising ratio indicates open interest is outpacing market size and increases the risk of volatility,"" one researcher said.
Chart of the Day: Over 5,000 BTC that have been dormant for at least seven years have been moved in the past 24 hours.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin (BTC) has managed to hold the $20,000 level after dipping to lows of $19,500 on Monday. The world’s largest cryptocurrency by market value is up 3% over the last 24 hours.
Altcoins outperformed bitcoin with ether (ETH) up 8% on Tuesday while stocks rose as investor sentiment began to stabilize. U.S. futures climbed. Markets suffered a rough start to the week on fears of aggressive rate hikes by the Federal Reserve.
From Friday’s peak to Sunday’s low, bitcoin lost 10% while ether lost 17%.
Avalanche’s AVAX token recovered, up 13% on the day after trading down Monday to its lowest price since July 13 after a self-described ""whistleblower"" website accused Ava Labs, the company behind the Avalanche blockchain, of paying lawyers to hurt competitors and keep regulators at bay. Since then, Avalanche’s founder, Emin Gün Sirer denied that his company has been involved in a behind-the-scenes smear campaign against competitors of Avalanche.
Cosmos’s ATOM was up 12% and the FLOW token surged 16%.
In other news, FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried said in a tweet Monday that the crypto exchange had no plans to acquire rival Huobi. Speculation had emerged that FTX, which has extended financial lifelines to several troubled crypto companies, might acquire Huobi.
Huobi’s native token, HT, declined about 6% following Bankman-Fried’s tweet.
Stablecoin issuer Tether has refuted claims made in a Wall Street Journal report in relation to uncertainty over its balance sheet. The newspaper reported that Tether's assets outweigh its liabilities by just $191 million, implying a relatively ""thin cushion of equity.""
Ether, Bitcoin Could See Turbulence as Open Interest Leverage Ratio Soars to Record High
By Omkar Godbole
Traders love volatility and Ethereum's ether (ETH) and bitcoin (BTC) could soon offer plenty of it. That's the message from observers tracking the so-called open interest leverage ratio.
The metric is calculated by dividing the amount of dollars locked in open perpetual futures contracts by the market capitalization of the underlying cryptocurrency. The ratio represents the degree of leverage relative to the market size or sensitivity of the spot price to the derivative market activity.
Both ether and bitcoin's perpetual futures open interest ratios stood at lifetime highs above 0.03 and 0.02 at press time, according to data sourced from Decentral Park Capital and blockchain analytics firm Glassnode.
""The rising ratio indicates open interest is outpacing market size and increases the risk of volatility due to future [long/short] squeezes,"" Decentral's researcher Lewis Harland said.
Perpetuals are futures with no expiry. A futures squeeze refers to a sudden and rapid move in an asset's price caused by bears or bulls abandoning their positions. A short squeeze is a rally fueled by sellers dumping their bearish bets (shorts). A long squeeze is a decline caused by bulls closing their bullish bets (longs). The higher the leverage ratio, the bigger the impact of long/short squeeze on the asset's price.
Crypto research firm Delphi Digital's Andrew Krohn voiced a similar opinion in Monday's client note, saying the ratio suggests that open interest is large relative to the market size and ""implies a higher risk of market squeezes, liquidation cascades or deleveraging events.""
The futures market involves leverage, meaning a trader can take a large long/short position by depositing a relatively small amount of money, called a margin, while the exchange provides the rest of the trade value. That exposes futures traders to liquidations – forced closure of long/short positions due to margin shortages often caused by the market moving in the opposite direction of the trade.
These forced closures put upward/downward pressure on prices, leading to increased volatility. The greater the degree of leverage relative to the market size, the bigger the risk of liquidations injecting volatility into the market.
Read the full story here.
Dormant Bitcoins on the Move
By Omkar Godbole
Data tracked by lookintobitcoin.com shows over 5,000 BTC that have been dormant for at least seven years have been moved in the past 24 hours.
Historically, the market has seen increased downside volatility with the movement of coins that old and of that size, according to Philip Swift, founder of lookintobitcoin.com.
Stablecoin Tether Dismisses Wall Street Journal's Claim of Inadequate Reserves: The Wall Street Journal had reported that Tether's assets outweigh its liabilities by just $191 million, implying a relatively ""thin cushion of equity.""
Founder of Turkish Crypto Exchange Thodex Arrested in Albania: Faruk Fatih Özer disappeared in 2021, taking with him funds from 400,000 users.
South Korea Must Reverse Ineffective Ban on Crypto ICOs, Central Bank Says: The Bank of Korea says companies like stablecoin issuer Terra were able to circumvent the ban and sell digital tokens to locals by setting up corporations overseas.
Crypto Custody Firm Fireblocks Adds Support for Solana Blockchain’s DeFi, NFT, Gaming Apps: The integration also pushes support for the WalletConnect2 protocol across the Solana ecosystem, said Fireblocks CEO Michael Shaulov.
Indonesia's Biggest Tech Firm Enters Crypto With Purchase of Local Exchange, Reuters Reports: GoTo Gojek Tokopedia bought Kripto Maksima Koin for 124.84 billion rupiah ($8.38 million).
Crypto Lender Hodlnaut Placed Under Interim Judicial Management by Singapore Court: The Singapore-based lender was placed under interim judicial management, a type of creditor protection, on Aug. 29.
FBI Asks DeFi Platforms to Increase Security Measures, Warns Crypto Investors Against Vulnerabilities: The warning comes after a slew of DeFi hacks this year, which has led to investors losing billions of dollars worth of crypto."
163,960,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/30/blockchain-gaming-platform-xterio-raises-40m-led-by-partner-funplus/,Blockchain Gaming Platform Xterio Raises $40M Led by Partner FunPlus,"The round was co-led by Makers Fund, FTX Ventures and XPLA.",2022-08-30,"Blockchain gaming platform Xterio raised $40 million in a funding round led by game developer and Xterio partner FunPlus, FTX Ventures and blockchain gaming platform XPLA. The funding will go toward game development and building out the platform.
Xterio combines a play-to-earn gaming platform and a GameFi-as-a-service product for developers in the partner network, according to the white paper. FunPlus, a global developer of popular mobile strategy games, provides Xterio with its technology stack. Xterio is FunPlus’ exclusive partner to mint, deploy and manage all non-fungible tokens (NFT) for current and future game titles.
“Today, there’s no mass-market, fun, high-quality, high-fidelity game that incorporates Web3 and digital ownership in a meaningful way,” Xterio co-founder and Chief Operating Officer Jeremy Horn told CoinDesk in an interview. “When you look at our executive team, we’re very proven hitmakers … who have worked on games that have generated billions of dollars in revenue. We know how to make games and we’re going to put fun at the center of our releases.”
Horn previously served as the vice president of strategy for mobile game developer Jam City. Xterio marketing head Darion Lowenstein is a game industry veteran with past producing roles at the likes of Electronic Arts and Activision Blizzard. CEO Michael Tong is also the chief strategy officer at FunPlus, and Yitao Guan serves as chief technology officer at both Xterio and FunPlus.
Other participants in the funding round included Hashkey, Foresight Ventures, Headline, Matrix Partners and Animoca Brands.
The platform, which is overseen by the Switzerland-based nonprofit Xterio Foundation, presents users with a marketplace, a community hub and a custodial crypto wallet. On the developer side, Xterio provides the technology to make it easier for Web2 gamemakers to transition to Web3 such as minting NFTs, in-game trading and regulatory compliance, said Horn.
Xterio plans to unveil its blockchain partner in the coming weeks. The first slate of game announcements are expected this fall."
164,1099,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/31/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-claws-back-above-20k-singapore-bank-heads-speech-reflects-growing-crypto-hostility/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Claws Back Above $20K; Singapore Bank Head’s Speech Reflects Growing Crypto Hostility,"In his speech, Ravi Menon spoke in favor of digital asset innovation but not cryptocurrency speculation. But the Monetary Authority of Singapore’s approach may not be realistic.",2022-08-31,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $20K after slipping below the threshold earlier on Tuesday.
Insights: A recent speech by the head of Singapore's central bank reflects a lack of understanding about cryptocurrencies.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $20,009 −1.2%
●Ether (ETH): $1,562 +1.5%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,986.16 −1.1%
●Gold: $1,735 per troy ounce +0.7%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.11% +0
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Regains $20K
By James Rubin
The job market remained hot. Investor tensions remained high.
Bitcoin responded in concert with other riskier assets by spending most of Tuesday on its heels before rallying later in the day.
The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently changing hands over $20,000, down about 1% over the past 24 hours. BTC has been struggling to hold this psychologically important threshold as investors fret over continued U.S. Federal Reserve monetary hawkishness tied at least partly to a historically low unemployment rate.
""Risk aversion is firmly back in place, and that sent bitcoin below the $20,000 level,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote in an email, noting that if the current ""broad sell-off"" of stocks ""intensifies, bitcoin could be vulnerable.
""If the S&P declines by 3% over the next few days, that could be the catalyst to send bitcoin back toward the June lows,"" Moya wrote.
Ether was recently trading near $1,600, a roughly 3% gain over the past 24 hours after the second-largest crypto in market value also rallied late. ETH been struggling to hold support above $1,500 for the past few days. Most other cryptos in the CoinDesk top 20 spent much of the day in the red. Popular meme coin DOGE and DOT were recently off more than 2% and 1%, respectively. Trading volume was tepid compared to a week ago.
""Retail traders sentiment is very weak,"" Rosh Singh, co-founder and CEO of Quadency, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""A lot of retail traders are platform-focused on retail traders. So we're seeing very weak activity as of late which could indicate that we're bottoming out soon.""
Equity markets dipped for a third straight day amid the looming prospect of a third consecutive 75 basis-point interest rate hike. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) all fell about 1%. The U.S. Labor Department's latest employment report showing 11.2 million job openings in July, offered the latest evidence of a relentlessly upbeat job market at odds with other economic indicators showing the economy in contraction.
""This is one critical component of the labor market that will help the Fed justify aggressive rate hikes,"" Moya wrote of Tuesday's Labor Department report.
One sliver of good news: The Conference Board’s August consumer confidence index rose after three consecutive, monthly declines, surging to an unexpectedly high 103.2 reading, up from 95.3 in July and above the median forecast of 98 from a Bloomberg survey of economists. Buoyed perhaps by falling gas prices and abundant jobs, consumers said they were more confident about business prospects in six months, the time frame upon which the report considers.
Regulation assumed at least part of the crypto news spotlight on Tuesday with CoinDesk reporting that FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried and his government relations and policy team had visited members of the Biden administration in May amid the ongoing debate in Congress about whether the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) should serve as the crypto industry's primary federal market regulator.
Meanwhile, Barclays (BCS) analyst Benjamin Budish initiated coverage of crypto exchange Coinbase (COIN) with an equal weight rating and $80 price target, although he also noted the threats of regulatory risk and exposure to retail trading revenue.
Quadency's Singh called $19,800 ""a key support resistance level.""
""If it were to be breached, we could be seeing $14,000,"" he said, but noted optimistically ""that's probably unlikely as we are also seeing strong fundamentals from the miner side. Miner outflows are on two-year lows right now. And the hash rate continues to climb up.""
He added: ""If bitcoin holds the $19,800 level, we could see it go up to $30K.""
Singapore Central Bank Head's Speech Shows Continued Crypto Hostility
By Sam Reynolds
It’s no secret that the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) has a growing hostility to crypto. A recent address by Ravi Menon, the authority’s managing director, solidified this stance: ""Yes to digital asset innovation, no to cryptocurrency speculation.”
Digital asset innovation in the eyes of MAS means things like security token offerings (STO) and tokenized bonds. During his address, which attempted to clarify the sovereign island nation’s stance on digital assets, Menon listed a number of key projects where the bank has engaged institutional stakeholders to build out offerings.
To be sure, the digitization of traditional financial vehicles through blockchain and digital ledger technology (DLT) provides a long list of benefits. The problem is that despite the endorsement of Singapore’s regulator, these offerings aren’t hitting their stride because regulations are holding them back.
Remember, none of this is institutional crypto; DBS has a desk for that, as does OSL. This is all about using blockchain technology to emulate traditional financial products.
Regulated digital asset offerings by their nature need to be geographically locked off and restricted to institutional investors. While the back end of these products is improved, they still access the same capital pools, maybe even smaller, that traditional financial products use.
A lack of regulation
Alessio Quaglini, CEO of Hex Trust, a Hong Kong-based crypto custodian, told CoinDesk in an email that investors have remained cool to STOs. Quaglini’s position is unchanged since an interview last year when he also noted little interest in this type of investment. He blames the lack of crypto-native regulation for this trend.
“The main issue is the regulatory framework, which still doesn’t exist or is too fragmented,” he said via email.
Aside from the fact that markets close by 5 p.m. to mark the close of business, Quaglini says that they are already efficient.
“I believe the first security token type of initiatives will come from synthetics listed on crypto exchanges,” he said, referring to a specific token type that’s effectively a representation of another asset like a stock, bond or commodity future.
FTX launched something like this with tokenized stocks earlier this year.
DBS didn’t respond to CoinDesk’s request for comment. All the trading takes place behind virtual closed doors on the DBS Digital Exchange using permissioned blockchains. On-chain data isn’t available as it would be for normal, public chains.
Until there is regulation that is written with crypto in mind, and doesn't try to apply securities laws from the last century to this asset class, STOs remain a big yawn. MAS’ Menon also said in his speech that a retail crypto ban would be impossible to enforce. So why not just regulate retail crypto instead of trying to manufacture something in which the market only has mild interest?
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a .m. UTC): China NBS manufacturing PMI (August)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan annualized housing starts (July)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan consumer confidence (August)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Ether Rising, Bitcoin Steady; Federal Reserve’s FedNow Real-Time Payments Set for Mid-2023 Debut
""First Mover"" dove into markets as ether (ETH) led a crypto relief rally and bitcoin (BTC) seemed to find support at $20,000. Rosh Singh, founder and CEO of Quadency gives his crypto markets outlook. Also, CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De explains the Federal Reserve's instant payments service that could pave the way for a central bank digital currency (CBDC). Plus ""Sin Week"" continues at CoinDesk and ""First Mover"" looks at decentralized sports betting.
Thai SEC Fines Bitkub Executive $235K for Insider Trading: Last week, the country’s oldest commercial bank backed out of a deal to buy a majority stake of the local crypto exchange, citing unresolved regulatory issues.
Singapore State Investor Temasek to Lead $100M Funding Round in Animoca Brands: Report: The sovereign wealth fund, whose net portfolio value stood at $403 billion in March, has been an active investor in the crypto industry.
Founder of Turkish Crypto Exchange Thodex Arrested in Albania: Faruk Fatih Özer disappeared in 2021, taking funds from 400,000 users.
Crypto Lender Nexo Allocates Additional $50M for Token Buyback Initiative: After purchasing its native tokens, Nexo will hold them in a vesting period for 12 months.
Other voices: Cryptoverse: Bleeding bitcoin's holding out for a hero (Reuters)
In Defense of Crime: Crime can be an important signal that something in society needs reforming, writes David Z. Morris. Financial surveillance that attempts to completely prevent crime could just make things worse in the long run. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sin Week.
""After all, the adult entertainment industry has been an early adopter of new technologies. If the metaverse is meant to reflect people’s wildest fantasies, then sexual exploration will definitely be a part of the scene, as we’re already seeing in virtual dating."" (CoinDesk contributor James Key)"
165,1104,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/08/31/binance-froze-russian-gun-makers-crypto-assets-amid-ukrainian-pressure/,"Binance Froze Russian Gun Maker's Crypto Assets, Amid Ukrainian Pressure","Vladislav Lobaev, a Russian gun manufacturer, raised $21,000 in crypto for the war in Ukraine before the world’s largest crypto exchange locked down the funds.",2022-08-31,"Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume, froze a wallet related to Vladislav Lobaev, a Russian gun manufacturer who raised funds for the country's troops in Ukraine, according to a Lobaev representative and blockchain data analysis.
While the Ukrainian government did not mention Lobaev or anyone else by name, last week the Security Service of Ukraine (SSU) published a press release saying the agency “blocked a crypto wallet belonging to a Russian citizen who is sponsoring Russian war in Ukraine.” CoinDesk has confirmed that the wallet was Lobaev’s Binance account.
This article is part of CoinDesk’s Sin Week series.
Lobaev is a founder of Lobaev Arms, a private firm producing rifles and other military ammunition. He is an enthusiastic supporter of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and regularly asks subscribers to his Telegram channel to donate money so that Lobaev can provide more ammunition for the Russian troops in Ukraine.
The channel listed several payment methods for subscribers to donate, including blockchain addresses for bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and tether (USDT).
After the Ukrainian law enforcement discovered the fundraising activity, it apparently persuaded Binance to freeze the account, which by then had received over $21,000 in bitcoin, ether and USDT. Security Service of Ukraine do not respond to CoinDesk’s requests to comment.
Binance would not discuss the ownership of crypto wallets in question.
“Any government or law enforcement agency in the world can make lawful requests regarding users in their jurisdiction provided these are accompanied by the proper legal authority,"" a spokesperson for Binance said. ""However, Binance also protects its users and reserves the right to reject law enforcement requests that don’t stand up to legal scrutiny, where no legal purpose is served or there are flaws in the investigative approach. We apply the same level of scrutiny to requests as any leading bank, financial institution or multinational company would.""
Vladislav Lobaev is a well-known gun manufacturer with right-wing views. Lobaev Arms, which Vladislav Lobaev runs with his brother Nikolay, has been producing firearms since 2003, specializing in sniper rifles. The firm benefitted from earlier sanctions on Russia, when the import of Western ammunition in Russia stopped, the state-run news service Sputnik wrote. The use of Lobaev’s rifles during the war in Ukraine has been advertised by Russian state media.
In his Telegram channel, Lobaev has been actively supporting Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and even re-named his channel as “Lobaev Z,” adding the letter Russian troops put on their vehicles, which became an unofficial symbol of Russia during this war. Lobaev praises Russian troops, analyzes weapons used by the Ukrainian army, and badmouths Ukraine, NATO and the LGBT community.
CoinDesk reached out to Lobaev via a feedback bot in his Telegram channel and got a response from a person saying he was Lobaev’s son Evgeny, who was in charge of the crypto fundraising. He confirmed Lobaev’s Binance account was frozen and said he did not know what to do in this case.
He also sent CoinDesk a screenshot of a chat with the exchange’s support team: According to the customer service rep, the account was “locked due to an account review.”
The exchange stopped accepting Russian bank cards this spring, following the international sanctions on Russia and the exit of MasterCard (MA) and Visa (V) from the country. Asked how he was able to cash out crypto from a Binance account, “Evgeny Lobaev” said he used over-the-counter (OTC) brokers.
He also said cryptocurrencies constituted “not a big part” of all the incoming donations. (Lobaev also uses Russian fiat payment service Yoomoney and an account at the Russian financial institution Sberbank.)
Evgeny Lobaev is not a public person and the rare mentions of him on the internet are usually related to the war. There is a LinkedIn account for a Evgeny Lobaev working as a supply chain coordinator at Lobaev Arms. The person who corresponded to CoinDesk via the Telegram bot did not respond to a question asking whether it was his LinkedIn account or not.
Evgeny Lobaev, according to some accounts, participated in the war himself. In an amateur video published on YouTube March 1, a man in military fatigues is smiling in front of artillery machines shooting. Another amateur video said this person was Evgeny Lobaev and he was captured by Ukrainian forces. Later, a Russian blogger known as WarGonzo published a clip showing a similar looking person, saying it was Lobaev and that he was not captured.
“Lobaev” told CoinDesk he was not captured and he was now in Russia.
In its press release, the Security Service of Ukraine (SSU) said it “blocked a crypto wallet belonging to a Russian citizen who is sponsoring Russian war in Ukraine.” The agency said it identified the crypto wallets a certain individual used to raise funds for ammunition and arms that later was being sent to the troops invading Ukraine. The SSU said it was working on ways to confiscate the funds.
The individual, whom SSU did not name, managed to raise an amount equivalent to 800,000 Ukrainian hryvnias (US$21,700), the announcement said, and used that money to buy equipment for the troops of the self-proclaimed People’s Republics of Donetsk and Luhansk – breakaway Eastern regions of Ukraine that have received clandestine armed support from Russia since 2014. Since Russia started a full-fledged invasion of Ukraine in February, it has been actively recruiting the population of these regions for helping its own troops.
The Ukrainian news website Liga.net identified the individual SSU talked about by the photos in the press release with pro-Russian forces carrying weapons, which match photos on Lobaev’s Telegram channel (for example, this one and this one).
According to the blockchain analytics firm Crystal Blockchain, all crypto addresses Lobaev published for fundraising belong to Binance, the largest centralized crypto exchange.
This explains how the Ukrainian authorities were able to block the wallets. Decentralized blockchains, such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, do not allow anyone to block or freeze any addresses or transactions. However, centralized custodial exchanges, such as Binance, Coinbase (COIN), FTX, which hold cryptocurrency on their users’ behalf, can refuse service to individual users at the request of authorities.
This happened in the past to accounts that received money stolen from hacked exchanges or designated terrorists. Also, smart contracts for tokens created on top of blockchains, such as the contract that issues USDT, allow freezing individual wallets. Tether, the issuer of USDT, has done so in the past.
Read also: Hamas Tapped Binance to Launder Bitcoin Donations, Blockchain Data Suggests
According to the blockchain data, the bitcoin wallet Lobaev listed for fundraising received over 6.4 BTC (about $19,700) since late April. The ether wallet received 3.25 ETH (over $1,500), a USDT wallet on the Tron blockchain received a little over $840 in the U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin.
All the wallets have been mostly drained of funds, with the latest transactions recorded between late July and Aug. 14. This does not necessarily mean Lobaev was able to cash out all of his crypto donations: deposit addresses for exchanges can be just temporary storage for coins, and what is actually happening to users’ money is not fully reflected on the public blockchain, only in exchanges’ private records.
In July, analytics firm Chainlalysis said 54 pro-Russian militant and volunteer groups raised over $2,2 million on crypto via social media channels. These organizations used donations to buy firearms, medical supplies, satellite communication hardware and other products. The list included Terricon, a group led by the sanctioned Russian citizen Alexander Zhuchkovsky; Rusich, a group associated with the Russian mercenary group known as Wagner; and anonymously written blogs Rybar and SouthPost."
166,834,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/01/first-mover-asia-waves-founder-defends-usdn-stablecoin-depegging-trashes-fears-of-a-ust-like-implosion-bitcoin-burrows-in-above-20k/,"First Mover Asia: Waves Founder Defends USDN Stablecoin Depegging, Trashes Fears of a UST-Like Implosion; Bitcoin Burrows in Above $20K",Sasha Ivanov told CoinDesk the USDN model uses four tokens to supply liquidity and to help the stablecoin retain its $1 peg.,2022-09-01,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $20K; ether climbs.
Insights: The founder of the Waves protocol defended the decision to add the SURF token to a basket supporting the USDN stablecoin.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $20,025 +1.4%
●Ether (ETH): $1,553 +2.3%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,955.00 −0.8%
●Gold: $1,720 per troy ounce −0.2%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.13% +0.02
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Burrows in Above $20K
By James Rubin
Fresh from its Tuesday rally back above the psychologically important $20,000 threshold, bitcoin burrowed in.
The largest cryptocurrency in market value was recently trading at roughly $20,100, up about a percentage point over the past 24 hours as investors looked ahead nervously after a month to forget in crypto markets. BTC has fallen more than 13% in August and nearly 20% since the middle of the month when a surge steeped in the false hopes of a return to more moderate monetary policy (since dashed by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell in Jackson Hole, Wyoming) sent the price up near $25,000.
The Fed is ""talking tough, tough, tough, which is why stocks and cryptos have been falling,"" Glen Goodman, crypto consultant at exchange eToro, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program.
Ether was recently changing hands at roughly $1,550, also rising more than a percentage point from Tuesday. The second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has dropped 7% in August and more than 20% since mid-month euphoria about the Merge, the Ethereum blockchain's hotly anticipated protocol switch from a proof-of-work to more energy-efficient proof-of-stake sent spurred an ether price spike over $2,000.
Other major altcoins spent much of the day in the green, with LUNA and MATIC both up more than 2% at one point. ADA was recently down 1.3%.
Equities
Stocks that have correlated with cryptos for much of the year went a different way on Wednesday, falling for a fourth consecutive day. The tech-focused Nasdaq declined more than 0.5%, while the S&P 500, which has a strong tech component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) tumbled 0.8% and 0.9%, respectively to cap their own devilish month. The Nasdaq and S&P each plunged more than 4% after emerging from bear market territory during August's first week.
Central bankers and others trying to make sense of the confoundingly resilient employment market received some logic in management services firm ADP's August employment report that showed private-sector employers adding an unexpectedly low 132,000 jobs during the month. The total was 60% below the average of the previous three months and offered one of the few recent signs that labor markets may soon be slowing. Still, the reading is unlikely to sway the Federal Reserve from its commitment to boost interest rates aggressively to tame inflation, even at the expense of a continued economic contraction that is frightening asset markets.
In crypto news, South Korean customs authorities on Tuesday arrested 16 people involved in illegal foreign exchange transactions, reported local outlet Newsis. And as CoinDesk's Danny Nelson reported, Credit Suisse held tens of millions of dollars in “digital assets” for its clients at the end of the second quarter, according to regulatory filings. The disclosure underscored how traditional financial institutions are inching toward crypto custody.
eToro's Goodman called September ""the cruelest month for stock markets"" going back to the 1950s, noting cryptos' recent link to equity markets, and he also highlighted bearish sentiment on Twitter about the coming month. But summoning his inner contrarian, he added that he couldn't ""help but think the opposite.""
""Looking at the stock and the crypto charts that are correlated to them, they look bearish, but it's not a predetermined conclusion that we will definitely get down to that level and then go even lower,"" he said. ""There is hope that stocks and bonds, [and] cryptos could turn around.""
Is USDN Like UST? No, Says Waves Founder Sasha Ivanov
By Shaurya Malwa
Waves founder Sasha Ivanov dismissed criticism of the protocol’s recent decision to add the new SURF token as part of the basket of tokens that backs its USDN stablecoin, which some detractors say has “created a model similar to UST,” referring to Terra's algorithmic stablecoin.
Ivanov explained to CoinDesk over several Telegram messages on Wednesday that USDN’s model involves four tokens in its mechanics – WAVES, NSBT, USDN itself and SURF – with all of them supplying liquidity to, and helping USDN retain, its $1 peg.
“UST was backed by nothing – LUNA [the token] was burned to create UST. It was never intended to be backed up by anything other than the algorithm,” Ivanov explained. “The opposite is true of USDN. WAVES tokens are held in a smart contract to collateralize USDN.”
Algorithmic stablecoins are backed by a basket of tokens and rely on smart contracts and arbitrage mechanisms to hold their peg to a chosen currency, usually U.S. dollars. In USDN’s case, users must lock in WAVES in Neutrino's smart contracts to mint USDN, while USDN redemptions have the opposite effect of destroying the stablecoin to unlock WAVES supply.
Waves’ native USDN stablecoins fell to nearly 90 cents last week after a liquidity crisis caused the tokens to lose their intended peg with U.S. dollars, causing wider crypto market concerns.
Sasha Ivanov has previously raised these concerns. ""We have to work on the algorithm. And what happens now is kind of inevitable, which is just a test of the whole system,” he said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program in June.
USDN's lost peg
The concerns resurfaced last week as USDN lost its peg, which concerned some analysts.
“Even though all purchases made with this token add to USDN backing, the move created a model similar to UST by relying on a secondary token to support the stablecoin's peg by providing liquidity,” Iakov Levin, CEO of crypto yield platform Midas, explained in a message to CoinDesk.
Levin further stated that market participants were likely removing liquidity from decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms ahead of the upcoming Ethereum Merge upgrade. “No one is keen on supporting the peg of another algorithmic stablecoin. This model potentially leads to dire consequences and extreme fragility of the peg,” he told CoinDesk in Telegram messages.
Ivanov, however, pinned last week’s USDN deppeging to Vires Finance, a lending platform built on Waves. The depeg has happened due to the repayment plan implemented by the community vote on Vires finance,” Ivanov said. “$1 million USDN is released daily in repayment to Vires depositors, and it seems that amount is too high to be sustainable for the peg of USDN.”
Vires previously faced scrutiny from market participants in April, when several Twitter handles accused the Waves team of manipulating the price of its native token through the platform. Ivanov dismissed the allegations at the time, accusing Alameda Research of manipulating waves prices and running a hostile media campaign to trigger a panic selling.
Meanwhile, the possibility of depegged stablecoins remains a worry among the crypto community, a part of which is plagued by fears of a UST-like repeat months after the Terra ecosystem crashed and wiped off some $28 billion in value from related applications.
12:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(8:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun Bank manufacturing PMI (August)
9:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:45 a.m. UTC): Caixin manufacturing PMI (August)
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. continuing jobs claims (August 19)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Has Bitcoin Hit a Floor? Blockchain Data and the Ethereum Merge
With Ethereum's long-awaited transition to proof-of-stake (PoS) fast approaching, blockchain analytics firm Coin Metrics is out with a new report explaining the move, along with data that provides some insights about user behavior. Lucas Nuzzi, Coin Metrics head of research and development, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the findings. Glen Goodman, eToro crypto consultant, provided his bitcoin and crypto markets outlook. Also, Mythical Games CEO John Linden took a look at the state of the non-fungible token (NFT) market.
More Volatility Ahead for Bitcoin as Federal Reserve Keeps Quiet: BTC traders will have to be data dependent, just like the central bank.
Bitcoin Miners' Profitability May Narrow as Mining Difficulty Hits Second-Biggest Increase This Year: Bitcoin miners are stepping up production as the weather cools down, so the network automatically adjusted to increase the difficulty of mining a block.
A16z Wants to Standardize NFTs by Giving You a License for Your Token: Andreessen Horowitz's crypto arm is releasing a free licensing system, aiming to help the NFT sector fulfill its ""economic potential.""
Morgan Stanley Says Stablecoin Market Cap Is Contracting Again: The bank said it sees little evidence of leverage rebuilding in the decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem.
S. Korean City Busan Taps FTX to Develop Crypto Exchange, Promote Blockchain Businesses: Busan aims to develop a blockchain zone in the coming years and had also signed on crypto exchange Binance last week.
The Sex Club, Tokenized: Daniel Saynt’s Manhattan sex club has plans for NFT membership and its own NSFW token. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sin Week.
Other voices: The Potential Role of Standards in Supporting the Growth of Distributed Ledger Technologies/Blockchain (Rand)
""What are 'non-crypto-based blockchains'"" (CoinDesk technology reporter Sam Kessler) ... ""NEW: Today, we’re suing Michael Saylor – a billionaire tech executive who has lived in the [District of Columbia] for more than a decade but has never paid any D.C. income taxes – for tax fraud."" (Washington, D.C., Attorney General Karl Racine)"
167,425,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/01/potential-ethereum-hard-fork-token-ethpow-could-trade-at-18-ether-futures-suggest/,"Potential Ethereum Hard Fork Token ETHPOW May Trade at 1.5% of Ether's Price, Futures Suggest",Paradigm expects the token will open at least $18.,2022-09-01,"If you have been following the crypto market for some time, you probably have heard that Ethereum, the world's largest smart-contract blockchain, may undergo a hard fork later this month, splitting into a proof-of-stake (PoS) chain and a proof-of-work (PoW) chain.
The Ethereum chain with the PoS consensus mechanism will retain the seven-year-old ether (ETH), which was recently trading at $1,570, as its native token. The PoW chain, representing a group of miners opposing the impending Merge, or switch to PoS, would have a new token called ETHPOW.
Crypto analysts figure that if the chain splits, ETH holders will receive ETHPOW free of cost.
One way to gauge the potential value of ETHPOW is to look at the difference between spot ether and futures prices, according to Paradigm, which focuses on over-the-counter trading for institutions.
As of Wednesday, ether Sept. 30 expiry contracts listed on major exchanges traded at a discount of $18 to the spot price, indicating the market is expecting the ETHPOW token to draw a price of at least $18 at inception.
""We can infer how much the market estimates ETHPOW will be worth from simply looking at spot-future basis, since spot = PoS + PoW, while future is just PoS,"" Paradigm said in a Merge-focused blog post published Wednesday. ""Currently, the basis is implying ETHPOW to be priced ~$18, which is ~1.5% of ETH market cap.""
Trading giant Cumberland voiced a similar opinion last month, saying, ""We can infer how much the market estimates ETHPOW will be worth from the spot-future basis.""
The logic behind considering the $18 basis as a possible ETHPOW price is that the discount represents the risk-free cost of collecting the potential forked tokens. So, if traders are willing to pay $18, they must expect the token to be priced at $18 or higher.
Traders stand to receive ETHPOW free of cost if they hold ETH and will receive nothing if they take bullish exposure through the futures or options market. So, ether's price can be taken to represent the value for ether as well as for a potential ETHPOW token.
Holding ETH to earn ETHPOW, however, means being exposed to ETH's price volatility. A decline in ETH's price would eat into money made from receiving ETHPOW for free and liquidating in the spot market.
So, the ideal strategy to make risk-free money is to buy ETH and short September futures – the so-called spread trade. That way, ETH holders can pocket ETHPOW without any directional risk. Assume a trader took the trade on Wednesday, when futures were priced at an $18 discount. The discount is essentially the cost of collecting ETHPOW tokens risk-free because futures sold at a discount of $18 would eventually converge with the spot price.
Paradigm said:
The futures premium/discount narrows as expiry nears and eventually converges on the spot price on the day of the settlement.
The hedged long spot trade aimed at collecting ETHPOW without directional risks is one of the most popular ways of trading the impending Merge.
""With our newest integration with FTX, the spot/30 Sep future spread price of around $18 can be seen as a derivative market of how much traders are willing to pay to be long spot/short futures to receive ETHPOW tokens,"" Patrick Chu, head of institutional coverage for the Asia-Pacific region at Paradigm, told CoinDesk. ""We have seen a large uptick in clients since the start of the partnership.""
Last month, Paradigm, in partnership with crypto exchange FTX, launched single-click execution of the spread trades.
The value for ETHPOW tokens suggested by futures basis is significantly lower than the price that IOUs representing the token are currently trading at on exchanges MEXC, CoinW, Phemex, Bitrue and Gate.io. At press time, the ETHPOW IOUs traded at $50, according to CoinMarketCap data. Prices reached as high as $140 early last month, indicating frenzy around the potential hard fork token."
168,1106,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/09/01/helium-developers-propose-shifting-network-to-solana-blockchain-for-faster-speeds/,Helium Proposes Shifting its Entire Network to Solana Blockchain Months After $200M Raise,Developers cited faster transactions and “higher uptimes” among several reasons behind the proposed move.,2022-09-01,"Developers behind the Helium network – a grid of medium-range wireless hotspots pitched as an alternative to hard-wired internet service – are proposing to migrate away from the project's own blockchain onto Solana, in pursuit of faster transaction speeds, higher uptimes and more interoperability with other blockchains as key reasons.
The Helium Foundation wrote in a Medium post this week that the new proposal from the Helium core developer team would improve the operational efficiency ""significantly.""
The proposal to move toward Solana and away from Helium's own blockchain, officially known as HIP 70, ""addresses network speed, reliability and scalability,"" the foundation said.
According to the post, members had spent ""countless hours keeping up unprecedented growth"" and that reliable ""proof-of-coverage activity"" and ""reliable data transfer activity"" have ""proven to be a challenge for users."" The Helium Foundation said it ""fully supports"" the proposal, and that it had been under discussions with Nova Labs – the company behind the project – for months.
Nova Labs announced $200 million of fresh funding in March.
A Discord call is planned for 4 p.m. ET (8pm UTC) Thursday for Helium community members to discuss the proposed migration to Solana. According to the Medium post, voting opens on Sept. 12 and concludes Sept. 18.
The developers propose shifting all Helium-based tokens, governance, and economics around the network’s native HNT, DC, IOT and MOBILE tokens onto Solana. The move would help scale the Helium network, developers said, which has grown to over 1 million “hotspots” in recent months. Helium would also be utilized with ongoing Solana projects, such as the Solana Saga smartphone, developers said.
A key part of Helium's consensus mechanism was said to be unable to handle network demands, which prompted developers to shift away from the Helium blockchain.
The Helium blockchain uses a novel work algorithm called “Proof of Coverage” (PoC) to verify that hotspots are located where they claimed. Put another way, PoC tries to verify, on an ongoing basis, that hotspots are honestly representing their location and the wireless network coverage they are creating from that location.
Hotspots enable anyone to own and operate a wireless network for low-power Internet of Things (IoT) devices while providing coverage for devices using Helium LongFi in return for HNT rewards.
PoC is an intensive and complex program, however, and has “proven to be a challenge for users” in recent months, as per developers. The increased load on the Helium network has caused issues with the transfer of data packets between users.
Developers have proposed to scrap the PoC mechanism entirely as part of the shift to Solana – a move that shows the currently used consensus mechanisms on the Helium blockchain were not able to handle network applications in their current form.
Scrapping the use of PoC would help make the Helium network “become much simpler,” developers said.
“Solana is a layer 1 blockchain that focuses on the importance of scalability and speed,” developers said, adding the network does not compromise on security or scalability. Solana has faced uptime issues in the past, however.
The proposal comes months after Helium raised $200 million in a Series D funding round at a $1.2 billion valuation in February in a round led by Tiger Global and FTX Ventures, who joined existing investors Multicoin Capital and a16z. All these firms have previously invested hundreds of millions of dollars in the Solana ecosystem.
UPDATE (15:20 UTC): Adds details from Helium Foundation proposal.
Cameron Thompson contributed to this report."
169,833,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/02/crypto-investor-bnktothefuture-agrees-to-buy-salt-to-add-crypto-lending/,Online Investing Platform BnkToTheFuture to Buy Crypto Lender Salt Lending,The platform also plans to work with companies in financial distress.,2022-09-02,"Online investing platform BnkToTheFuture has agreed to buy Salt Lending for an undisclosed amount to give users the ability to borrow against their crypto holdings just as lenders such as Celsius Network and Voyager Digital freeze withdrawals and seek protection from bankruptcy.
The firm, which allows qualifying clients to invest in crypto companies, security tokens and alternative financial products such as bitcoin-centered retirement plans, said it also plans to help distressed lending platforms and their customers. It declined to be more specific.
It has proposed a restructuring bid for Celsius, in which it holds a 5% stake. The firm was said to have been eyeing the loan book business of Celsius, according to people familiar with the matter.
Voyager filed for protection from creditors in June after pausing customer withdrawals as it faced a liquidity crisis triggered by the collapse of Singapore-based crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. Celsius followed suit, citing “extreme market conditions.” Another lender, BlockFi, was hit hard by the sharp downturn in the crypto market in June and July, trimming roughly a fifth of its workforce and accepting a $250 million loan from crypto exchange FTX in moves that sparked concerns about its financial health.
“We want to offer an option for distressed lending companies that may not be able to come out of bankruptcy due to regulatory issues,” BnkToTheFuture CEO Simon Dixon told CoinDesk in a statement.
BnkToTheFuture is registered as an excluded securities business with the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority. Salt, founded in 2016 and based in Denver, was one of the first entrants to the crypto lending arena, predating companies such Celsius and BlockFi.
""By combining a registered securities business with a registered lending business, we believe we are able to offer a regulatory-compliant lending and yield platform to users,"" a company representative told CoinDesk.
The company worked with crypto exchange Bitfinex on a recovery plan. In 2016, Bitfinex was hacked for more than119,756 bitcoins, or $66 million at the time, in 2016, after attackers managed to bypass account security controls.
Bitfinex recovered in less than a year after working with BnkToTheFuture, Dixon said. That plan involved enabling the redemption of Bitfinex’s BFX tokens for equity in iFinex, its British Virgin Islands-based parent company, to customers affected by the hack.
The deal with Salt Lending is contingent upon signing definitive agreements and obtaining regulatory approvals.
UPDATE (Sept. 2, 15:45): Changes lead photo."
170,836,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/06/binance-ditched-a-bunch-of-stablecoins-even-a-newly-banished-issuer-was-ok-with-it/,Binance Ditched a Bunch of Stablecoins. Even a Newly Banished Issuer Was OK With It,"Surprisingly, Circle’s CEO expects USDC to benefit from getting booted from Binance, while market insiders predict a better trading experience.",2022-09-06,"While some market participants were initially shocked that the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume ended its support of a slew of stablecoins, others are praising the move – including the issuer of the largest stablecoin that’s getting ousted.
Binance announced Monday that USD coin (USDC), Paxos dollar (USDP) and trueUSD (TUSD) will no longer be traded at the exchange, and deposits will automatically be converted to Binance USD (BUSD) – the exchange’s own token – starting in late September.
The decision touches a core part of the crypto ecosystem. Traders use stablecoins – cryptocurrencies whose prices are anchored to an asset such as the U.S. dollar – as a bridge between traditional government-issued (fiat) currencies and blockchain-traded digital assets. The combined market capitalization of stablecoins mushroomed to $160 billion from less than $20 billion two years ago.
In the last 24 hours, four-fifths of all bitcoin (BTC) and three-fifths of all ether (ETH) traded on exchanges were done against U.S. dollar-denominated stablecoins, according to data compiled by CryptoCompare.
Read more: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
With some $20 billion in average daily volume over the past month, the Binance exchange is roughly eight times larger than its nearest competitor, FTX, in terms of transactions, according to Coinranking. Thus, its announcement stirred some controversy at first, interpreted as the exchange’s attempt to use its heft to prop up its own $19 billion stablecoin and simultaneously favoring Tether’s USDT, the largest stablecoin, worth $67 billion, over its challenger, the $52 billion USDC.
While it seems counterintuitive, Jeremy Allaire, chief executive officer of Circle, the firm that issues USD coin, tweeted that the “change will likely lead to more USDC flowing to Binance.”
As crypto traders don’t really use BUSD outside of Binance itself, “this will likely benefit USDC usage as the preferred cross CEX [centralized exchange] and DEX [decentralized exchange] stablecoin rail,” Allaire added. “With consolidated dollar books, it will now be easier and more attractive to move USDC to and from Binance for trading core markets.”
A Binance spokesperson said the firm’s goal with reducing the number of tokens trading at the exchange was to concentrate stablecoin liquidity. The decision was agreed upon with Circle and other third parties in advance.
The co-founder of Wintermute, a major crypto trading firm, agreed that USDC will benefit. “This is positive for USDC (and TUSD and others),” Evgeny Gaevoy tweeted. “It’s not USDC ‘delisting’, it’s another big step towards tether (USDT) losing ground to U.S.-native stablecoins.”
Binance’s move to slash trading pairs carries advantages for its customers, too.
Paxos Trust Co., which issues both USDP and Binance’s newly favored BUSD, claimed there were security improvements for users.
“This is a positive development for the safety of Binance’s customers,” Rich Teo, co-founder and CEO of Paxos Asia, told CoinDesk, citing that BUSD is under the supervision of the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) and its backing reserves are kept in a “bankruptcy remote trust which offers greater consumer protections.”
Crypto trading with USDC, TUSD and USDP “have relatively little volume” compared with both USDT or BUSD on Binance, Clara Medalie, research director at crypto market research firm Kaiko, pointed out in a tweet.
Low trading volumes mean that trading with these stablecoins carries significantly higher spreads, essentially incurring hidden costs for users.
#Binance is removing $USDC, USDP and TUSD denominated pairs from the platform, with deposits/withdrawals to be auto-converted to #BUSD.

How significant is this move?

All 3 stablecoins have relatively little volume compared with #USDT/BUSD. pic.twitter.com/xQgq1BAofB
“While controversial, this move will likely improve price discovery and overall liquidity on Binance,” Medalie said. “Downsides (for some) are further centralization of market activity on Binance and growing dominance of Binance-issued products.”
Even though the verdict on Binance’s move seemed mostly positive, Circle criticized the exchange’s approach to unilaterally convert existing customer assets.
“While optimizing dollar liquidity on the world’s largest exchange may carry benefits, the paradigm does raise potential market conduct questions,” a Circle spokesperson told CoinDesk."
171,667,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/06/nft-software-company-dust-labs-raises-7m-during-y00ts-release/,NFT Software Company Dust Labs Raises $7M During y00ts Release,The announcement came during the high-profile and long-anticipated minting that’s taken the Solana NFT community by storm.,2022-09-06,"Non-fungible token (NFT) software company Dust Labs has raised a $7 million funding round, announced during the pandemonium for its Solana-based y00ts NFT minting on Monday.
We would like to announce that we have raised a strategic round of $7M to build out the $DUST ecosystem.

AMA with @frankdegods & our CEO @kevindegods on Thursday, September 8th. pic.twitter.com/VxzdZeu3P0
Participants in the round include Foundation Capital, Solana Ventures, Metaplex, Jump, FTX Ventures and Chapter One. The investment was a 50/50 split between company equity and its DUST token, a representative told CoinDesk.
DUST is a utility token on Solana dubbed as the official currency of the DeGods ecosystem. DeGods is known for its popular eponymous PFP, which is the highest valued collection in the Solana NFT world.
At 11:30 p.m. ET, DUST was down 30% from its daily high of $3 as traders digested the news. It’s not uncommon for tokens purchased to qualify for an NFT release to lose valuing following its mint.
The company, created by the founders of the DeGods NFT collective, specializes in providing NFT tooling to projects on Solana and Ethereum. Its first product is a “scholarships” whitelisting tool that it displayed during the y00ts mint.
The DeGods team has had a whirlwind of a week, delaying the mint for its buzzy y00ts project after a “blocker bug” last minute. Dust Labs said it will be hosting an AMA (ask me anything) on Thursday to provide further information.
(Disclosure: The author was among the Monday minters of y00ts NFTs.)"
172,1100,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/06/crypto-investment-slowdown-will-continue-through-rest-of-2022-predicts-kpmg/,"Crypto Investment Slowdown Will Continue Rest of 2022, KPMG Predicts","Investors will move away from NFTs and coins and toward blockchain infrastructure projects, the global audit and consulting firm said.",2022-09-06,"Global investments in cryptocurrency companies pulled back to $14.2 billion in the first half of 2022 from a record $32.1 billion last year, a slowdown that’s expected to continue, according to a new report from global audit and consulting firm KPMG.
“Despite the crypto space collapsing significantly since midway through Q1 22 due to the unexpected Russia-Ukraine conflict, rising inflation and the challenges experienced by the Terra crypto ecosystem, investment at midyear remained well above all years prior to 2021,” KPMG noted in its report. “This highlights the growing maturity of the space and the breadth of technologies and solutions attracting investment.”
The top deals in the first half of the year were venture capital investors putting $550 million in crypto custody firm Fireblocks, $450 million in Ethereum infrastructure builder ConsenSy and $400 million into crypto exchange FTX.
In the second half of the year, KPMG expects investors to move away from companies offering coins and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and toward blockchain infrastructure projects, particularly those that involve the use of blockchain in updating financial technology. The firm sees a growing focus on compliance and transaction traceability-related products and increased corporate interest in stablecoins as a lower-risk path to investing in crypto.
KPMG predicts that well-managed crypto companies with healthy risk and cost-management strategies will survive the downturn, while the resilience of other crypto companies will be “tested very hard as some look to recapitalize at lower valuations.”
Read more: Crypto VC Investments Drop 26% in First Half of 2022"
173,1103,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/07/first-mover-binances-usdc-swap-out-isnt-what-you-think-it-is-whats-behind-bitcoins-late-dive/,First Mover Asia: Binance’s USDC Swap Out Isn’t What You Think It Is; What's Behind Bitcoin's Late Dive?,The exchange is hoping to generate one big pool for USD stablecoins to be used for trading and powered by Binance’s USD stablecoin; bitcoin drops below $19K.,2022-09-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin falls below $19K after a late Tuesday plunge.
Insights: Binance’s USDC swap out isn’t what you think it is.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $18,857 −6.3%
●Ether (ETH): $1,538 −8.0%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,908.19 −0.4%
●Gold: $1,707 per troy ounce +NaN%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.34% +0.1
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Plunges Below $19K; Ether Falls as Well
By James Rubin
After cruising along at just under $20,000 for much of the past four days, bitcoin took a late Tuesday plunge below $19,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $19,850, down more than 6% over the previous 24 hours, as investors burrowed more deeply into risk-off mode. The decline followed the release of the Institute of Supply Management's (ISM) monthly services index showing an unexpected increase in activity among the 15 industries measured in the report. The August ISM underlined the likelihood of further steep interest rate hikes by the U.S. Federal Reserve to slow the resilient economy as it seeks to tame inflation.
""The September swoon is in play as a resilient economy paves the way for more Fed tightening,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote in an email.
Moya added: ""The retail trader is starting to panic again as meme stocks and cryptos fall under pressure. Bitcoin is breaking below the key technical levels.""
After surging early Tuesday and outperforming bitcoin, ether also plummeted. The second-largest crypto by market value was recently trading near $1,530, off roughly 8% as ETH excitement over the Merge, the change of protocol from proof-of-work to more energy efficient proof-of-stake lessened.
Other major cryptos were solidly red after promising beginnings on the first work day following the long U.S. Labor Day holiday weekend. ETC's price, which had risen 28% early Tuesday over the previous 24 hours to trade at $41, was more recently down 14% and changing hands below $35. UNI was off almost 16%.
Equity markets also closed down, albeit less dramatically, with the tech-focused Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) all down by a few fractions of a percentage point. ""Stocks are going to struggle because too much of the economy is doing well and that leaves Wall Street vulnerable to an extended period of rising interest rates,"" Moya wrote.
Moya noted bitcoin's continued correlation with tech stocks, and he called ""the surge with Treasury yields, which rose to nearly 3.5% – their second-highest level of 2022 – ""a troubling sign.""
""Many are starting to doubt that the peak in yields is in place and that could spell trouble for bitcoin,"" he wrote. ""Bitcoin selling pressure will next eye the summer lows just ahead of the $17,500 level.""
Binance’s USDC Swap Out Isn’t What You Think it Is
By Sam Reynolds
On the surface, Binance removing stablecoins it doesn’t control, like USDC and trueUSD (TUSD), and converting the balances to BUSD looks bad – like antitrust bad, as there’s a platform swapping out the support of its competitor’s product for its own.
But that’s a surface-level analysis.
The reality is not quite that. Binance will still support other stablecoins. It will allow the deposit and withdrawal of USDC, TUSD and others (just not tether). What the exchange is hoping to accomplish is having one big pool for USD stablecoins to be used for trading – powered by Binance’s USD stablecoin – similar to how FTX pools all stablecoins together under a generic USD and stablecoins category.
“Removing most stablecoin pairs is a good thing. Liquidity doesn’t have to be split between multiple stablecoins, making market makers’ jobs easier and markets overall more liquid,” Evgeny Gaevoy, CEO of Wintermute, a market maker for digital assets, tweeted.
Gaevoy highlighted that this change actually makes transactions more seamless and frictionless. Binance’s margined products were all denominated in BUSD anyway so there was a conversion required.
“Now you can skip the conversion step both ways (for BUSD margined products). It’s a better customer journey all while keeping USDC useful (I’d even argue more useful),” he tweeted.
But why isn’t tether (USDT) included in this list of stablecoin products Binance will convert to BUSD?
Gaevoy thinks it's because U.S. regulators hate tether, meaning that Silvergate and Signature, two large crypto-friendly banks in the U.S., won’t touch it.
All this is similar to how FTX treats tether. USDT is viewed as an asset being 1:1 to the U.S. dollar, but not a stablecoin.
Burak Tamac, senior researcher at CryptoQuant, has a slightly different view. This move by the exchange is all a play by Binance to absorb the liquidity of USDC in order to undermine USDT.
“According to our recent research on stablecoin efficacy, USDT and BUSD have been the top contender for market velocity,” he told CoinDesk, while pointing out that USDC’s one-year velocity is 0.08 compared to USDT’s 0.83 and BUSD’s 0.33.
“Since USDC does not seem competitive with BUSD, I believe Binance aims to absorb USDC’s liquidity to undermine USDT in the long run,” he continued. “BUSD’s issuer Paxos is under the New York Department of Financial Services regulatory umbrella. Regulatory clarity and a higher Peg-Robustness score will give BUSD a better ground to compete with USDT.”
Behind the scenes
Nansen analyst Martin Lee wrote in a note to CoinDesk that Binance has “massively reduced its holdings from the middle of August, while most exchanges typically range sideways.”
Data shows that Binance reduced its holdings of USDC from 2.2 billion USDC on Aug. 14 to one billion USDC on Aug. 22.
The most notable transaction is a transfer of 1.78 billion USDC from a Binance peg wallet to a Binance deposit wallet, Lee wrote. It's significant, he believes, because the Binance peg wallet contains tokens that are wrapped and pegged by Binance on a 1:1 ratio to the corresponding native token.
Binance’s intent
The core question remains what Binance’s intention was in removing USDC and other stablecoins as a trading pair.
On the one hand, the fact that the exchange is removing, behind the scenes, USDC as one of its pegs would suggest that it might be a grander play to delete the stablecoin from history after it gets absorbed. After all, one of the functions of stablecoins, aside from their use in trading pairs, is to provide the dollar stability that their name endows.
And if Binance is attempting to remove USDC’s functionality as one of the important pegs for other tokens, then it just might have more sinister plans for the stablecoin market to solidify BUSD’s lead.
But on-chain data doesn’t always paint the full picture. This could all just be a harmless reshuffling of assets.
Kyiv Tech Summit
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China Imports/Exports/Trade balance (August)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan leading economic index (July preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Ethereum Gets Bellatrix Upgrade Ahead of Merge, ETH Jumps Over 6%, ETC Over 26%
The countdown began. The Bellatrix upgrade was activated on Tuesday, marking the beginning of the Merge – the transition of Ethereum’s proof-of-work (PoW) chain to the proof-of-stake (PoS) Beacon Chain. Joining ""First Mover"" to discuss Bellatrix and the Merge was Ethereum Protocol Developer Preston Van Loon. Also, Michael Venuto of Toroso Investments provided crypto markets analysis, and Nick Maynard of Juniper Research explained new research on non-fungible tokens (NFT).
Crypto Exchange KuCoin Highlights Flaws in DeFi Platform Acala's Post-Exploit Proposal: The exchange has pinpointed several mistakes in the platform’s data on erroneously issued stablecoins.
Bitcoin Dips Below $19K, Hitting Lowest Point in Two Months: The price fell to $18,680 on Tuesday, a point not seen since late June.
The Fed Wants You to Lose Money in Stocks and Probably Crypto, Too: Monetary policy works through financial conditions, including equities and consequently crypto, which has been highly correlated with the equity market.
UK’s Truss Picks Kwasi Kwarteng to Be Finance Minister: Since 2021, Kwarteng has overseen the government’s business, energy and industrial strategy department, which has supported blockchain innovation.
Voyager Kept Taking Buy Orders After Freezing Crypto Transfers; Now, This Trader Is Stuck: “Why did they fill my buy order” after the firm had already shut trading, deposits and withdrawals down? Shaik Taj Baba asked."
174,1105,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/09/08/crypto-fantasy-football-is-here/,Crypto Fantasy Football Is Here,Subtitle not found,2022-09-08,"If you spend enough time in crypto, you’re bound to hear a well-worn cliche: “The space is so young, it’s like we’re in the early 1990s' internet.” Back then, according to this logic, the average person couldn’t see past the clunky interface of TCP/IP, and only a few bold dreamers could envision a world of e-commerce, global interconnectivity and stupid cat videos.
Allow me to introduce a fresher analogy: Crypto is now in the early ‘90s' version of fantasy football. I know because I was there. When I was a high school nerd in 1992, pre-internet, I read a magazine about this strange new concept and I convinced my friends to try it. No one else understood what we were doing. We were ahead of the Dork Curve. I used actual newspapers – they once came in print – to manually tabulate scores. My friends and I were obsessed, and I had a hunch that the world would eventually catch up.
Read more: NFL All Day 101: How to Buy, Sell and Trade NFL NFTs
Flash forward 30 years. The dorky fringe became the mainstream, and fantasy sports is now a $22 billion market. It turns out that fantasy football was sneaky-good at more than just enriching the National Football League experience: It helped build communities. Friends gathered for drafts. They talked trash. They punished each other with 15-hour trips to the Waffle House.
The point is that crypto and fantasy football are more alike than you would think – goofy-sounding interests that some find enthralling and others find off-putting. (And they’re both, of course, packed with bros.) So it felt like only a matter of time until a merger of crypto and fantasy football. That already started with the more global version of football, soccer, as I learned when reporting on the thriving ecosystem of Sorare. An NFL version seemed like a lock.
Enter DraftKings (the sports fantasy and gambling behemoth), and enter The Owners Club, a crypto fantasy football game co-founded by Justin Herzig, who had previously launched an NBA Top Shot analytics project called Own the Moment.
“This was built by fantasy players for fantasy players, with a ‘normie’-focused approach,” says Herzig, who adds that the goal was to minimize the appearance of blockchain technology, because “you had to make it simple, and you had to make it fun.”
The Owners Club (TOC) launched in 2021 for its beta season, and this week, it's kicking off Year 2. Here’s how it works. You buy a pack of five cards, and each card has a city and a “position group.” So your card might be “Tampa Bay Quarterbacks” or “Dallas Cowboys Running Backs.” This is an almost shockingly different format from traditional fantasy football, where you simply draft Tom Brady, not “Tampa Bay Quarterbacks.”
Herzig wanted to keep it simple. “There are no concerns about injuries. No concerns about your running back getting vultured,” Herzig says. “We found this is a far more fun gameplay. It’s less of a grind.”
There are five position groups: quarterbacks, running backs, wide receivers, tight ends and defense. (The kickers have been booted.) Each week, you submit a five-card lineup into a weekly contest. The better your lineup does, the more prize money you can win. (Two thousand players entered TOC’s inaugural season, Herzig said, winning a combined $1.5 million.)
The odds are that when you open your first pack, you’re probably going to be happy with only one or two of your cards. You might get a dud. So you can upgrade your squad by buying and selling these NFTs in the marketplace, and the value of these non-fungible tokens can (and likely will) change over time.
Read more: Jeff Wilser - The Degens' Sports Club
“It’s a liquid market,” explains Mark Poskarbiewicz, a 36-year-old corporate finance analyst who played in TOC’s first season. “The market is pretty abundant with options.”
The concept of “market liquidity’ might sound weedy and arcane, but for those who have played in the same fantasy football league for years, this can be a big deal. I’s one of the features that makes me bullish on the long-term potential of crypto fantasy football.
In my own fantasy football league, for example, we rarely do any actual trading. It just doesn’t happen. (I blame the behavioral economics theory of “loss aversion,” where people are irrationally reluctant to part with their assets and get embarrassed in front of their friends.)
True, you can improve your team on the margins on the waiver wire, but once you draft your team you’re more or less stuck. True shake-ups are rare. The wheeling and dealing of TOC’s NFT marketplace, in contrast, lets players like Poskarbiewicz stay more engaged and feel like frisky general managers.
Poskarbiewicz ended up winning Week 1 in 2021, and he was later flown by TOC (along with other winners) to Miami for the final weekly battle of the season at the FTX Arena (of course) . He hauled in around $5,000 over the season, but the main perk was less about the money and more about the ease and enjoyment of play.
“One of my first complaints of daily fantasy sports is that you need a stats degree,” Poskarbiewicz says.
Poskarbiewicz is disenchanted by the spreadsheets and data science required for leagues like FanDuel and DraftKings, where the “whales” can dominate. He thinks TOC brought the game back to fantasy football basics, and felt like more of an “everyman’s league.”
That last point is debatable. In 2021, the starting five-pack cost $200, and Herzig says the average player spent $1,000 when factoring in their upgrades. That’s an order of magnitude above the typical fantasy football buy-in of $100 to $200. (This year the price of a five-pack drops to $100, and a separate game called “Best Ball” has packs for $10; it’s unclear if that cheaper game will hold the same appeal.)
And TOC will now face competition. This year a new project called “League DAO” is launching its own version of crypto fantasy football, where “on-chain scoring is based on real-world stats.” Meanwhile, one of the juggernauts of the traditional fantasy football space, DraftKings, is quietly rolling out NFT-injected fantasy football, called Reignmakers.
Unlike TOC, DraftKings has a licensing agreement in place with NFL players, which allows for an NFT marketplace of player cards. (Here you can get a Tom Brady card.) Similar to the TOC model, you can buy packs of cards (each card is an NFT) and enter contests throughout the season.
You can get a starter pack for free, and then upgrade your roster with $9.99 or $19.99 packs, or splurge on packs that cost $2,000. DraftKings plans to dole out over $30 million in prizes to these NFT games, according to Matt Kalish, co-founder and president of DraftKings North America.
This could mean mass adoption. Even in the game’s infancy, Kalish says there are more than 10,000 transactions per day in the NFT marketplace. That’s only a tiny slice of DraftKings’ 4 million users, but the slice will almost certainly grow.
“This could be hundreds of thousands or millions of users,” says Kalish, who notes that “we don’t have any products that don’t have millions of users.”
Herzig is aware of the stiff competition, and he’s a fan. “I think it’s a great variation of NFT fantasy football,” says Herzig, who sees it as an accelerant to wider adoption. “Our hope is that they’re going to build a great product that’s going to introduce a ton of fantasy football fans into this space.”
I don’t have any insight or predictions about whether The Owners Club, League DAO, DraftKings, Sorare or some other project will emerge as the leading platform for crypto fantasy football. But as a fantasy football nerd who has morphed into a crypto nerd, the marriage feels inevitable. After all, we’re only in the early 1990s."
175,835,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/09/first-mover-asia-crypto-legislation-enforcement-highlight-a-busy-fall-for-financial-regulators-bitcoin-holds-steady-over-19k/,"First Mover Asia: Crypto Legislation, Enforcement Highlight a Busy Fall for Financial Regulators; Bitcoin Holds Steady Over $19K","South Korea, Thailand and Singapore will be addressing legal action, legislation and other issues in the coming months.",2022-09-09,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin held its most recent perch over $19,000, despite the latest hawkish comments from Federal Reserve officials.
Insights: Financial regulators in Asia face a fall season of crypto reckoning.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $19,375 +0.8%
●Ether (ETH): $1,638 +0.8%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,006.18 +0.7%
●Gold: $1,729 per troy ounce +1.2%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.29% +0.03
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Holds Firm Over $19K
By James Rubin
Bitcoin spent a second consecutive day firmly embedded above its most recent, $19,000 support line.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading over $19,350, nearly a percentage point higher than where it stood 24 hours ago as investors weighed the latest hawkish comments by U.S. Federal Reserve officials. With only a couple of blips, bitcoin has spent much of the past two weeks hovering over $19,000.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap and token of the Ethereum blockchain, was recently changing hands above $1,600, up 0.8% from a day earlier. Ethereum's Merge, which will shift the protocol from proof-of-work to a more energy-efficient proof-of-stake protocol and has excited investors, is roughly a week away.
Other major altcoins spent much of the day in the green with LINK and SOL recently up more than 8% and 5%, respectively.
Crypto prices followed a recent trend in tracking stocks, which closed higher on Thursday. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500, which has a big tech component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) all climbed more than a half-percentage point as markets seemed untroubled by the latest statements from Fed Chair Jerome Powell, who reiterated the bank's commitment to tame inflation on Thursday at an event organized by the libertarian think tank, the Cato Institute. “History cautions strongly against prematurely loosening policy,” Powell said.
The release next week of the latest Consumer Price Index (CPI) will show if the Fed has made progress in its inflation fight, although most observers of monetary policy expect the bank to raise interest rates a robust 75 basis points for a third consecutive time. Faced with soaring prices across the continent, the European Central bank on Thursday boosted its rate by this increment for the first time since it it began setting monetary policy in 1999.
In a bad news is good news data point, mortgage rates increased to their highest level in almost 14 years, the latest sign of the sort of cooling economy that the Fed is seeking. The 30-year fixed mortgage rate is now approaching 6%, about double where it stood a year ago, a weekly report by mortgage provider Freddie Mac showed.
In crypto news, Powell repeated his position that the Fed does not want to interfere with crypto innovation but that regulation is important. Powell stressed the need for proper regulation of stablecoins if these are to have the properties of money such as clarity, transparency and full reserves. “I don't think you want to take money and make it into just another consumer product where sometimes it fails and sometimes it's good,” he said.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Andre Portilho, head of digital assets at Brazilian financial services firm BTG Pactual, also highlighted the need for smart rules. ""Regulation needs to evolve,"" Portilho said, referring to comments by SEC Chair Gary Gensler who appeared earlier in the program. He added: ""We need actually better regulation and more modern regulation in order for the technology benefits and gains [to] come to the market.
A Fall Season of Crypto Reckoning in Asia?
By Sam Reynolds
This summer was a busy one for the enforcement arm of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as it pursued four crypto-related cases that ranged from possibleninsider trading at Coinbase (COIN), to crypto-related Ponzi schemes and the all-time classic ""selling unregistered securities.""
In Asia, regulators are preparing for an equally busy fall with everything from legislation to enforcement action on the table.
Korea
The crypto industry likes to think of itself as being ""everywhere but nowhere."" Register in a friendly jurisdiction and provide service through the worldwide web is the prevailing mantra.
But South Korean authorities don’t like the idea. The Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) is targeting 16 crypto exchanges for conducting “illegal business activities” by operating in Korea without a proper virtual asset service provider (VASP) license.
It's yet to be seen what Korean authorities will do about this. Regulators in Ontario faced a similar situation with KuCoin, which was accused by the OSC of selling unregistered securities to residents of the province.
Seychelles-registered KuCoin is said to have been uncooperative with the investigation, questioning the regulator’s authority over them and ghosting them entirely. Time will tell if they do the same with Korean authorities. Meanwhile, South Korea's Financial Services Commission (FSC), the parent organization of KoFIU, wants crypto legislation fast-tracked through the country’s National Assembly to give it a post-Terra tool kit to deal with the crypto landscape.
There are 13 proposals for new crypto legislation waiting, CoinDesk previously reported, including the country’s upcoming digital asset framework, the Digital Asset Basic Act.
Thailand
Thailand isn’t considered a traditional financial hub in Asia, but its banks and trading community have enthusiastically embraced crypto. Siam Commercial Bank, for instance, has a $50 million blockchain fund and in early 2022 was using Compound to generate yield.
And for a non-financial hub that name isn’t exactly associated with good governance. Its regulator has been proactive in creating a rules-based crypto market that looks to protect consumers. Last year, the regulator banned non-fungible tokens (NFT) and meme tokens from local exchanges as they have “no clear objectives or substance.”
Now, the central bank, in conjunction with the SEC, is set to get a complete regulatory toolkit as lawmakers prepare to debate a crypto framework in the nation’s parliament.
It should be noted that Thai authorities aren’t trying to ban the retail trading of crypto. Thai SEC Secretary-General Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol has been quoted as saying that the commission’s mandate is to “provide more protection for small investors, some of whom are putting most of their savings into these assets.”
This is far removed from Singapore’s approach, which is an outright ban ( although officials say that enforcing such a ban isn’t realistic). For instance, while Thailand regulates retail-focused crypto advertising to ensure that risk disclosures are present and numbers in the adverts are accurate, Singapore bans it entirely.
Thailand regulators are going to have a complicated case in the coming weeks regarding Zipmex, a Thai-based but Singapore-registered exchange that had to temporarily suspend withdrawals earlier this year because of exposure to debt that soured during the broader market downturn.
Thailand’s SEC wants the police to compel Zipmex to hand over key documents. But Zipmex says those documents are contained within its Singapore entity, which is not under the jurisdiction of Thai authorities.
Another case of crypto companies wanting to be everywhere but nowhere.
Singapore
Singapore is the de facto crypto hub of Asia, but regulators in-country aren’t all that comfortable with the term.
They would much rather it be the region’s digital assets hub, a term that encompasses crypto but also includes digitized financial products like security token offerings (STO). Institutional crypto is all right, but retail is a hard no.
“Yes to digital asset innovation, no to cryptocurrency speculation,” is how the director of the Monetary Authority of Singapore put it in a recent speech.
Perhaps part of the hostility regulators have towards crypto is that as a hub, Singapore’s institutions must work through crypto’s biggest problems. Singapore’s judicial system is tasked with helping clean up the mess left behind by Three Arrows Capital. Many of the world’s Web3 projects are registered in Singapore, despite their presence in the city being little more than a post office box or a rented desk at a co-working space. Terraform Labs comes to mind, as does Three Arrows Capital.
As a result, tighter regulations are coming. The Monetary Authority of Singapore is attempting to do a voluntary audit of crypto firms that have a digital payments license to determine how exposed they are to other firms, especially with lending and borrowing.
The exact details of Singapore’s new crypto legislation are expected in the fall, probably around the time of the city’s Token2049 crypto conference.
If there’s a clue to what it might entail, one could look at a recent quote from Ravi Menon, managing director of the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
""Cryptocurrencies have taken a life of their own outside of the distributed ledger and this is the source of the crypto world’s problems,"" he said during a recent speech.
Practising Law Institute: The SEC Speaks in 2022
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China consumer price index (August MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Gensler Tells CoinDesk: ‘Very Few’ Tokens Are Not Securities, Platforms Have an Obligation to Register
SEC Chairman Gary Gensler spoke with CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De about crypto regulation, stressing that most cryptocurrencies are securities and that crypto service providers, including exchanges, have an obligation to register. Also joining the program was Andre Portilho of BTG Pactual with his crypto markets analysis and an update on inflation and crypto adoption in South America.
Crypto Influencer Cooper Turley Creates $10M ‘Coop Records’ Music Startup Fund: The FWB co-founder’s latest creation will act as an incubator, venture capital firm, and record label all in one.
Celsius, Creditors Agree to Independent Government Probe, Call for Narrowed Scope: The U.S. Trustee's office called for an independent examiner last month.
Three Senior Executives Jump from BlockFi Ahead of FTX Acquisition: Sources: BlockFi Global Head of Institutional Distribution David Olsson, Head of Private Clients Samia Bayou and Senior Institutional Sales Director Shane O’Callaghan are leaving the company, according to people familiar with the matter.
Celsius Crypto Borrowers Call for Bankruptcy Trustee, Oppose US DOJ Move to Appoint Examiner: While a bankruptcy court should appoint an independent examiner to investigate Celsius Network’s financials, the examiner should not work for the U.S. Trustee’s office, a group of Celsius borrowers said.
Crypto Engineers, Investors Sue US Treasury Over Tornado Cash Sanctions: The Treasury’s sanctions watchdog, OFAC, exceeded its authority in blacklisting smart contract wallets, plaintiffs allege in a new suit."
176,1108,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/13/nft-marketplace-doodles-raises-54m-at-704m-valuation/,NFT Collection Doodles Raises $54M at $704M Valuation,The venture-capital firm of Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian led the funding round.,2022-09-13,"Non-fungible token (NFT) collection Doodles has raised $54 million at a $704 million valuation, according to the company’s Twitter feed.
The round was led by Seven Seven Six, the venture-capital firm created by Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian. Doodles specializes in profile pictures.
NFTs are digital assets that represent ownership of virtual or physical assets.
“We are using the funding to rapidly acquire a world-class team of engineers, creatives, marketers and business executives. As well as to fund product development, acquisitions, proprietary technology, media and collector experiences,” the Doodles team tweeted.
The fundraising round comes during a crypto bear market that has put price pressure on the market for NFTs, digital assets like images and music with smart contracts to prove their uniqueness. The amount of U.S. dollars traded in the NFT market dropped 25% between the first and second quarters of this year, according to recent NonFungible.com data.
Acrew Capital, FTX Ventures, the venture-capital arm of crypto exchange FTX, and 10T Holdings also participated in the funding round.
Read more: What Are NFTs and How Do They Work
UPDATE (Sept. 13, 13:55 UTC): Corrects headline and text to say Doodles is an ""NFT collection"" not ""NFT marketplace."""
177,845,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/09/15/ethereum-pow-is-not-an-ethereum-competitor/,Ethereum PoW Is Not an Ethereum Competitor,"Will proof-of-work blockchains benefit from the Merge, beyond short-term speculation?",2022-09-15,"Ethereum, the world’s most active cryptocurrency network, just fired all of its miners. In a much-anticipated event you may have heard of called the Merge, Ethereum devs “switched out the engine of a moving car” to do away with the energy intensive process of securing blockchains known as proof-of-work (PoW).
That means scores of specially designed graphics chips, called ASICs (or application-specific integrated circuits), need to be pointed elsewhere if their owners – individuals, institutions and mining pools – want to churn a profit. There are only a few blockchains that use a similar-enough hashing function to Ethereum that could benefit from the estimated $5 billion worth of EtHash ASIC hardware in existence.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Already it seems that Ethereum Classic, a version of Ethereum that split from the “canonical chain” in 2016, has been a big winner. Ethereum Classic has seen its network hash power jump about 300% last night to closer to 300 terra hashes per second (TH/s) today, according to data site 2miners. (Hash power is the amount of computational energy used to secure a PoW crypto network.)
See also: Proof-of-Work vs. Proof-of-Stake: What Is the Difference?
Other, smaller, mostly inconsequential, chains like Ravencoin and Ergo have also seen massive spikes in hash power and the price of their native tokens. It remains to be seen whether this is a sustainable rally, considering the limited number of things you can do with – or reasons to build around – RVN and ERG.
Nowhere is the balancing act between the market price for a crypto token and the amount of energy people are willing to expend to earn those tokens clearer than in the alternative proof-of-work Ethereum fork aptly named ETHPOW.
The latest, buzziest Ethereum fork – “designed” by veteran Ethereum miner, initial coin offering (ICO) pitchman and principal architect of Ethereum Classic, Chandler Guo – was set up to benefit from the Ethereum Merge. Through promises of an airdrop (free money for ether holders) and charisma, Guo managed to convince at least 19 former Ethereum mining pools to continue mining his new chain.
Its token, ETHW, rallied from $35 to $60 in the hours following the network’s launch shortly after the Merge, before dropping to around $20 currently. This likely isn’t surprising to the number of people who predicted ETHPOW would come dead on arrival.
Although there could actually be a post-Merge market fit for a smart contract blockchain that utilizes mining (considering the top fleet of such chains from Solana to Cardano all use a variation of PoS), many have said ETHPoW is more of a cash grab. Despite seemingly large trading interest (or at least interest in the airdrop), few exchanges jumped to list the coin. Tether said it would integrate the chain and many a crypteratto warned it would “fracture” the Ethereum community.
CoinDesk Special Coverage: The Ethereum Merge
Critics noted ETHPoW failed to build basic blockchain infrastructure like a wallet or a block explorer before launch. Igor Artamonov, a former Ethereum Classic developer, questioned the chain’s branding, which seemed to sell itself on the idea of saving those poor, recently chainless miners, rather than something collectively important like proof-of-work’s tried and true security guarantees.
But the real reason the network will likely struggle to take off is that much of Ethereum’s insanely valuable decentralized finance (DeFi) economy may not follow the fork. That is, seemingly, both by choice and in some cases necessity for many DeFi protocols due to broken oracles.
Although many of Ethereum’s loudest boosters seemed to be championing the demise of ETH PoW before it even started – because the alternative chain could suck capital and developer talent from the Ethereum Foundation-approved network – it was probably never accurate to say Ethereum PoW was a competitor of Ethereum.
See also: Crypto Miner F2Pool Mined the Last-Ever PoW Ether Block
What it is, instead, is a competitor to Ethereum Classic, which forked in 2016. It’s a competitor for hashpower, for hardware. Its token, which is listed on a few exchanges including Poloniex and Gate.io (with futures trading on Binance and FTX), is a competitor for attention and dollars.
Ethereum Classic itself was never much of a contender for Ethereum’s throne. The network was hit with 51% attacks multiple times in the previous years, because the network struggled to pay for its own security because its token’s price was in the doldrums because few people (besides CoinDesk owner Barry Silbert) supported the network.
Post-Merge Ethereum Classic now has an overabundance of network miners. But it’s still unclear whether the token price can rise high enough for all of those ASICs to be profitable. Before the Merge, it was estimated Ethereum’s hashing power was 15 times higher than Ethereum Classic. That’s a lot of computing power to absorb, even if split between ETH PoW and the other PoW beneficiaries.
Proof-of-work networks need valuable tokens to make it worthwhile to mine, but it also needs developers and users. We might finally learn the answer to crypto’s perennial chicken-and-egg-like problem: what comes first, a valuable token or valued users?"
178,1102,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/15/first-mover-asia-defi-builders-speak-out-what-the-crowd-is-getting-wrong-about-the-ethereum-merge/,First Mover Asia: DeFi Builders Speak Out; What the Crowd Is Getting Wrong About the Ethereum Merge,"The Merge will lead to the reduction of the Ethereum blockchain’s carbon footprint, but it will not lower gas fees or improve Ethereum’s scalability, coders behind popular Ethereum-based projects said; bitcoin trades sideways.",2022-09-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Ether rises ahead of the Merge; bitcoin trades sideways but holds above $20K.
Insights: The Ethereum Merge has raised high hopes among investors and others, but misconceptions about its potential benefits abound.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $20,107 −0.9%
● Ether (ETH): $1,619 +2.5%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $1,017 +0.6%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,946.01 +0.3%
● Gold: $1,704 per troy ounce −0.0%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.41% −0.01
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Ether Rises as Merge Nears; Bitcoin Holds Above $20K
By James Rubin
A day after worrying inflation figures sent risk assets spiraling downward, bitcoin held fast above $20,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,100, roughly where it stood 24 hours earlier as investors continued to chew on the latest inflation figures and potential actions by the U.S. central bank at its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting next week. The FOMC seems likely to boost interest rates 75 basis points for a third consecutive time, although the prospects of a 100 basis point hike rose to over 30% on Wednesday.
Ether outperformed bitcoin and was recently trading at over $1,600, a more than 2% gain in the final hours before the hotly anticipated Merge, the technological overhaul to a proof-of-stake protocol that promises to be faster and more energy efficient than its proof-of-work predecessor.
""Given the jump in ETH/USD’s price last month, the Merge appears to have been priced in,"" James Trescothick, global market analyst for brokerage platform tixee, wrote in an email. ""This has been circulating for some time, so there is no element of surprise, so a strong rally is not likely.""
Most other cryptos in the CoinDesk top 25 by market cap spent much of Wednesday in the green with ETC and LINK up more than 8% and 3%, respectively. ETC was recently trading at about $38, an approximately 30% gain from late last month and about three times its price in mid July. The shift in Ethereum's consensus mechanism has motivated network participants to refocus on ETC, the native token of Ethereum Classic, which was created in 2016 when Ethereum's blockchain split into two separate chains.
Stocks
Equity markets revived somewhat from their Thursday thrashing with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), S&P 500 and tech-heavy Nasdaq all trading up a few fractions of a percentage point, although a looming U.S. railway strike could lead to additional inflation pressures. Officials from the Biden Administration and union and railway company representatives were meeting to try to avoid the work shutdown.
Investors will be eyeing the release of U.S. retail sales data on Thursday for an additional signal of inflation's impact, likely Fed action and the direction of the economy. The report by the U.S. Census Bureau will come two days after the latest consumer price index (CPI) arrived at a disappointing 8.3%, higher than the consensus.
Trescothick of tixee wrote that data had clearly shown inflation to be ""the main threat to the U.S. economy ... that will drive the Federal Reserve to continue its aggressive attitude to bring CPI down to its target of 2% by hiking interest rates further.""
""There is real concern that with higher interest rates, the U.S. economy will fall into recession, which is hurting risky assets,"" he wrote.
Crypto news
The fallout from the collapse of the $40 billion Terra ecosystem and its algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST), which was the first domino to fall in this year's crypto winter, continued with a South Korean court's issue of an arrest warrant for TerraForm Labs co-founder Do Kwon.
And a federal judge granted a motion for the U.S. Trustee's office to appoint an independent examiner to investigate embattled crypto lender Celsius Network’s financial management that led the firm to file for bankruptcy earlier this summer.
But crypto eyes remained laser-focused on the Merge and its potential upside. Joe Orsini, vice president of research at crypto investment manager Eaglebrook Advisors, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that while the public's technical understanding of the Merge was lacking, ""just seeing Ethereum in the news represented ""great strides.""
""When you consider the adoption and how quickly it's become mainstream in the big picture of things – Bitcoin, 13 years old; Ethereum, about seven years old – these are great strides for these emerging assets that ultimately have a long, long and attractive opportunity set ahead of them,"" Orsini said.
Major Misconceptions About the Ethereum Merge Revealed
By Shaurya Malwa
If ether holders were to coin an expression, they’d most likely be saying, “Thank God! It's Thursday.”
Thursday (UTC) is expected to mark the genesis of the Merge, a much-awaited upgrade to the Ethereum network that moves the protocol from a proof-of-work (PoW) consensus mechanism to a proof-of-stake (PoS) design.
Developers say the move away from a proof-of-work system will make the network much cheaper and faster, and more environmentally friendly. However, the change will also mean the end of an income stream for Ethereum miners, who are rewarded with ether tokens for supplying resources to the blockchain.
“The Merge to proof-of-stake dramatically reduces Ethereum’s power consumption by 99.9%,” said Junnu Salovaara, head of crypto finance company Likvidi, adding the network would now sit alongside arguably sustainable projects such as Tezos, Solana and Algorand.
Mistaken notions
But misconceptions abound, coders behind some of the most popular Ethereum-based products told CoinDesk. Despite its benefits, the Merge is not going to make the network much cheaper or immediately scalable, developers point out.
“The biggest misconception on the Merge is that it will lower gas fees,” said Steven Walbroehl, chief technical officer of crypto security firm Halborn. “This is not true. It is a change of consensus mechanism, not an expansion of network capacity that would result in lower gas fees.”
Walbroehl and others also say that the Merge is unlikely to have a big impact on layer 2, or companion, blockchains, despite what loyalist sentiment on Crypto Twitter believes.
“I don’t think the Merge will have an impact on layer 2 projects,” he said, adding that while such blockchains “exist to make up for limitations” on the core Ethereum network, layer 2 systems like Arbitrum and Optimism provide speed and savings in gas cost and will “still be used.”
The Merge is also unlikely to improve Ethereum’s scalability significantly, James Key, CEO of Autonomy Network told CoinDesk. “It's a common misconception that The Merge will bring more scalability to Ethereum, because while it introduces proof-of-stake, which makes the network more efficient and environmentally friendly, it won't make transactions cheaper, he said.
Key said scalability, however, comes later as “sharding” is introduced on the Ethereum network. Sharding is a proposed method of splitting the infrastructure of Ethereum into smaller pieces with the goal of scaling the platform so it can support many more users than it currently does.
But even then, fees are likely to reduce to the level of those on layer 2 systems, which means users are likely to end up using those solutions instead of Ethereum. “Many [decentralized finance] applications will want to be on the same shard. And since fees will still be cheaper on layer 2s, it would give an even greater incentive to use those solutions compared to today.”
Energy savings
Despite the shortcomings, some observers highlight that the Merge is likely to change public perception of blockchains being “wasteful.”
“Ethereum and Bitcoin, the two oldest and largest blockchain projects, are both still using PoW, which is widely (and rightly) considered wasteful,” Mihailo Bjelic, co-founder of Polygon, told CoinDesk in an email. “Lately that has started to significantly impact the public opinion about Ethereum as a development platform and some startups, and enterprises became hesitant to explore Web3.”
“With The Merge, Ethereum is moving to PoS (proof-of-stake), which will exponentially reduce its carbon footprint,” added Bjelic. He claimed that startups and enterprises are “already regaining confidence” and embracing blockchain-based solutions for their usage.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia Consumer inflation expectations (Sept.)
5:15 p.m. HKT/SGT(9:15 a.m. UTC): Speech by Luis De Guindos, vice-president of the European Central Bank
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. initial jobless (Sept. 9)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Arrest Warrant Issued for Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon; Ethereum Merge Countdown
A South Korean court has issued an arrest warrant for Do Kwon, co-founder of Terra and its algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD (UST) that collapsed four months ago, setting off an industrywide fallout. Joining ""First Mover"" to discuss what this means for the crypto industry and to share his thoughts on the Ethereum Merge was Matthew Graham, CEO of Sino Global Capital. Joe Orsini of Eaglebrook Advisors provided his crypto markets analysis.
A Peculiar Flavor of NFTs Is Thriving in China – One Regulators Can Abide: Unlike most non-fungible tokens, China’s “digital collectibles” are built on closed networks and designed to appease regulators who frown on trading and speculation.
Crypto Traders in Wait-and-See Mode in Countdown to Ethereum Merge: Ether was trading around the $1,500 level as the Merge approaches in less than 12 hours. Bitcoin was back below $20,000.
Crypto Giant FTX Eyes Raising Money to Fund Acquisitions: Source: Sam Bankman-Fried’s exchange is raising capital as it considers a retail-focused deal, a person familiar with the matter said.
South Korean Court Issues Arrest Warrant for Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon: The warrant also includes five others, according to a report.
Bitcoiners Owe Andrew Ross Sorkin a Big Thank You: By successfully campaigning to further politicize the payments system, The New York Times columnist just made value-neutral cryptocurrency networks more valuable in the long term."
179,417,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/16/apecoins-ape-could-see-selling-pressure-ahead-of-major-token-unlock/,ApeCoin's APE Could See Selling Pressure Ahead of Major Token Unlock,"More than 25 million APE tokens will be released to launch contributors, representing nearly 8% of the circulating supply.",2022-09-16,"ApeCoin’s APE tokens slid early Friday ahead of a token unlock over the weekend that will release more than 25 million tokens and add to selling pressure.
APE is the native token of the ApeCoin decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), a community-focused effort established to steer the growth and development of the Bored Ape ecosystem. The tokens were launched in March and airdropped to holders of the Bored Ape NFT (non-fungible token) lineup.
The 25 million tokens – representing 8% of ApeCoin’s current circulating supply – are part of a planned series of unlocks that will eventually lead to a final supply of 1 billion APE tokens, up from the current 314 million.
Of the 1 billion total supply, 62% belongs to the ecosystem fund, 16% to ApeCoin issuer Yuga Labs, 8% to Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) founders and 14% to independent launch contributors. The unlocks for Yuga and BAYC founders are scheduled for next March, and this weekend’s unlocks are part of the token supply earmarked for contributors.
Information on who these contributors are isn't publicly available, but crypto research firm Delphi Digital said in a Friday note that it was “reasonable to deduce that it includes investors such as a16z, Animoca Brands and FTX,” because those firms participated in funding rounds for Yuga Labs and supported the development of ApeCoin DAO.
“The million-dollar question is whether these launch contributors will sell their tokens once released,” Delphi analysts added. “This will lead to significant sell pressure on $APE.”
APE traded at $4.80 during Asian morning hours, down 6.5% in the past 24 hours, even as the prices of other major cryptocurrencies were mostly flat. The APE tokens have lost 21% of their value in the past month, even as bitcoin and ether remained range-bound.
But despite the upcoming unlock, some analysts pointed out that ApeCoin staking – which would allow holders to borrow cryptocurrencies against their Bored Ape NFTs – is likely to act as a fundamental catalyst in the coming months.
“The upcoming staking feature will be the much-needed boost that will remind investors of the essence of the coin: Which is to create value for everyone in the Bored Ape ecosystem,” Chris Esparza, founder of Vault Finance, said in a Telegram message.
“ApeCoin holders can be sure of the fact that another viable income stream is set to be launched, this would undoubtedly revitalize the interest in the token and lead to accumulation,” Esparza added.
Horizen Labs, the company selected by the ApeCoin DAO to build the staking product, confirmed in July that development was underway and that its team was aiming to release the product this fall."
180,722,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/16/first-mover-americas-ether-declines-7-post-merge-and-makes-ether-futures-more-sensitive-to-staking-yields/,First Mover Americas: Ether Declines 7% Post-Merge and Makes Ether Futures More Sensitive to Staking Yields,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Sept. 16, 2022.",2022-09-16,"Price Point: Ether falls 7% after the Ethereum blockchain successfully completed its Merge Thursday. Chainlink's LINK and Chiliz's CHZ both make gains on the day following new announcements.
Market Moves: The Merge has made the ether futures market more sensitive to staking yields and could theoretically keep the futures curve in ""backwardation.""
Chart of the Day: S&P 500 follows 2008 analog in a bad sign for crypto.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Ether was trading down 7% over the last 24 hours after the Merge, a software update where the Ethereum blockchain successfully moved its consensus mechanism to proof-of-stake from proof-of-work. Following the Merge, the cryptocurrency briefly spiked 3% and then resumed its downtrend.
“It seems likely that a mix between the still-high correlations and investors looking to 'sell the news' led to ether's severe drop in spite of the milestone accomplished,” IntoTheBlock wrote in a research note Friday.
David Scheuermann, a trader at Crypto Finance AG’s, said it will take time to see the full effect of the Merge on the price of ether and the consequences should prevail once we are “out of this bear market.”
Ethereum classic was also trading down 10% on the day, and bitcoin, the world’s largest cryptocurrency, was down by 2%.
Chainlink’s LINK token climbed 5% after the project announced it is collaborating with engagement platform, bountyblok. It integrated Chainlink Verifiable Random Function (VRF) into Chainlink’s giveaway and distribution tools on Polygon’s mainnet to replace its previous centralized randomizer service (random.org).
Bountyblok tweeted, “This allows for provably fair and tamper-proof distributions and drawing of winners.”
Chilliz (CHZ), the token that powers socios.com, a blockchain-based fan and rewards platform, was up 10% after Chilliz tweeted Thursday that it will introduce a fan token made in Brazil on its launchpad.
In traditional markets, futures for the S&P 500 were down 0.9%. Contracts for the tech-focused Nasdaq 100 were 1% lower.
In the news, Celsius Network, which is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, has asked for authorization to sell its stablecoin holdings in order to generate liquidity to help fund its operations, according to new court filings.
And exchange giant FTX is in the lead to buy the assets of Voyager Digital, the cryptocurrency lender whose bankruptcy filing deepened this year’s industry crisis, but higher offers could still come in the days ahead, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements.
Ethereum Merge Has Tied Ether Futures Activity to Staking Yields, Traders Say
By Omkar Godbole
The Ethereum Merge, which happened on Thursday, has introduced several structural changes to the blockchain, promising to make it more environmentally friendly and reduce the supply of its native token ether (ETH).
According to traders, one consequence of the upgrade is that the activity in the futures market will now be closely tied to staking yields – rewards earned by locking ETH in the network in return for a chance to verify transactions under the proof-of-stake (PoS) consensus mechanism.
The bigger the reward for staking, the greater the number of stakers and the stronger the demand for shorting or selling futures. That's because staked ether cannot be withdrawn before the next upgrade called Shanghai fork, due in mid-2023, and will earn rewards in ETH, which makes stakers vulnerable to potential ether price slides. Therefore, they will likely hedge their ETH exposure by selling futures contracts tied to ether.
""Stakers have been and will be natural sellers in futures and perpetual futures. That's why open interest [number of open positions] is so high, and it will only grow if staking yields go higher,"" Zaheer Ebtikar, portfolio manager at crypto hedge fund LedgerPrime, told CoinDesk.
Ethereum's network switched to the PoS system on Thursday after the PoS Beacon Chain launched in December 2020 merged with the Ethereum mainnet that used a proof-of-work (PoW) mechanism whereby miners solved algorithmic problems to validate transactions in return for rewards. In other words, stakers are new validators.
While the Merge has taken away substantial miner selling from the spot market, it could bring more sellers to the futures market and cap the basis or the difference between prices in futures and spot markets or perhaps push futures into backwardation.
Read the full story here.
Bitcoin's Mean Net Inflows Surge to a Six-Year High
By Omkar Godbole
Stocks may be heading to new lows, as the chart provided by Mott Capital Management's Michael Kramer shows the S&P 500, Wall Street's benchmark index, is closely tracking the 2008 bear market slide.
Cryptocurrencies tend to move in line with stocks and could challenge June lows if S&P 500 keeps tracking the 2008 analog.
SEC's Crypto Guidance Pushes US Banks to Rethink Custody Projects, Reuters Reports:The regulator suggests that customers' crypto assets should be treated as liabilities by lenders, which could be ""prohibitively costly"" for banks.
Ethereum PoW Network Sees Complaints on Day 1 Amid Data Goof-Up: Users said they weren't able to access the blockchain's servers using the public information and attempts to link it to a crypto wallet failed.
El Salvador's Debt Rating Cut to CC at Fitch: The rating agency said the country is likely to default on a January debt repayment because it has limited market access to raise the funds needed, in part because of its bitcoin adoption.
Biden’s Executive Order Produces Few Answers in Crypto Reports From US Treasury: After six months, the federal government’s review of the crypto world hasn’t yet offered a road map for oversight, though it hinted at a federal regulatory structure and emphasized that a central bank digital currency may have serious support."
181,656,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/16/ethereum-proof-of-work-fork-crashes-as-justin-suns-poloniex-supports-rival-fork/,Ethereum Proof-of-Work Fork Stumbles as Justin Sun's Poloniex Supports Rival Fork,"The fork’s ETHW token dropped 70% on technical glitches and early supporter Poloniex's decision to back a different, little-known blockchain.",2022-09-16,"In stark contrast to the mostly flawless execution of the Ethereum Merge, technical snafus and defections have marred the new “fork” blockchain by crypto miners aiming to preserve the old proof-of-work network.
The project, tagged as EthereumPOW, fell flat right at the start as users complained about glitches, and crypto exchange Poloniex, where Tron founder and early cheerleader of EthereumPOW Justin Sun is an investor, decided to support a rival proof-of-work fork.
On top of that, it appears many crypto miners shifted their resources to focus on the Ethereum Classic (ETC) blockchain, data suggests.
The new ETHW token’s price tumbled to as low as $8 Friday on some exchanges that listed the cryptocurrency, a 70% drop from the $30 level where it mostly traded earlier this week.
On crypto exchange BitMEX, which had listed a derivative contract on the token in early August, ETHW futures dropped to $11 on Friday from $96 since trading commenced.
As Ethereum got close to finishing its transition to proof-of-stake technology with the Merge – a shift that rendered the miners’ processes and equipment obsolete – Chandler Guo, a China-based Ethereum miner, came up with an alternative plan.
He proposed in August to create a duplicate version of the Ethereum blockchain with a fork that would retain the mining-based proof-of-work consensus mechanism after the Merge. Everyone who held ether (ETH) would be entitled to receive the same amount of the new blockchain’s native token, ETHW, with an airdrop. The fork was scheduled to happen a day after the Merge.
Amid the initial buzz, some exchanges rushed to list a derivative of the potential blockchain’s would-be token, including crypto exchange Poloniex. Sun, an investor in Poloniex, became one of the loudest proponents of the proof-of-work fork of Ethereum, saying that it is a tried-and-tested system for the second largest blockchain.
Read more: Justin Sun Says Proof-of-Work 'Essential' Part of Ethereum
Then, on the day before the ETHW fork, Poloniex surprised many by announcing that it would support a little-known, different fork of the network, EthereumFair, with its native token ETF.
5 mins till ETHPoW mainnet info publish and Justin announces Polo support for another fork called EthereumFair which will be distributed to holders of 4 tokens, none of which are eth.

This space man. pic.twitter.com/ojIvYHJvOF
“Based on the market situation, consensus of users and the community, Poloniex has decided to choose the fork chain EthereumFair (ETF) which is supported by the community's majority and more PoW computing power as the main chain for ETHW tokens,” the crypto exchange said in a statement Thursday.
Information is scarce about EthereumFair. According to the project’s Twitter feed, ETF tokens will be distributed among bitcoin (BTC), dogecoin (DOGE), ether classic (ETC) and classzz (CZZ) token holders. Notably, ether (ETH) holders are about to miss out of the airdrop.
Poloniex said users already received the tokens, indicating that the blockchain went live. Crypto exchanges such as Huobi and Gate.io also listed ETF, and trading started early Friday.
Guo, the originator of the EthereumPOW, said in a tweet that Poloniex made a “huge mistake” by backing a rival fork.
Sun didn't immediately return a request for comment.
Kevin Zhou, head of crypto hedge fund Galois Capital, predicted earlier that proof-of-work forks would proliferate after Ethereum’s Merge.
At press time, EthereumFair’s token traded at around $17 on Poloniex. ETHW changed hands at $12 on crypto exchange FTX.
Analysts doubt the longevity of any proof-of-work fork, but many traders planned to make money on them well before the Merge.
Their strategy was to buy or borrow ETH to be selected for the airdrop. Then after claiming the ETHW (or any hard fork’s) tokens, they would dump them on the market. Since the tokens were free, any profits were seen as a bonus for holding ETH.
This put a huge selling pressure on ETHW – especially because few big investors ever took the breakaway project seriously.
""I spoke to a couple OTC (over-the-counter) desks, and they're saying everyone is selling. There's no buyer,"" Kevin Kang, co-founder of digital asset hedge fund BKCoin Capital, told CoinDesk.
Guo said Friday to CoinDeskTV that 90% of the miners of the EthereumPOW network will go bankrupt. When asked about the initial technical problems, he rated the start “mediocre.”"
182,300,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/19/defi-trader-nets-over-500k-by-using-dex-gmx-to-manipulate-avalanche-token/,DeFi Trader Nets Over $500K by Using DEX GMX to Manipulate Avalanche Token,GMX developers capped open interest for Avalanche tokens to prevent a repeat of the strategy.,2022-09-19,"A savvy crypto trader deployed millions of dollars to manipulate the prices of Avalanche’s AVAX tokens on the decentralized exchange GMX, taking up to $700,000 in profits by using a strategy that exploited a basic loophole.
GMX, like other decentralized exchanges, or DEXs, relies on smart contracts to match traders between decentralized finance (DeFi) users. Decentralized finance refers to trading activities carried out on a blockchain without the use of a third party.
The exchange allows users to trade spot and perpetual futures using its on-chain trading interface at low fees and has processed more than $45 billion in trading volume since its inception in 2021.
The loophole, however, is that GMX offers trading to users at zero slippage, or the difference between the expected price of a trade and the price at which the trade is executed. But all pricing data on GMX is derived from centralized exchanges, such as Binance or FTX, meaning a trader could buy a large number of tokens, such as AVAX in this case, on zero slippage, rapidly drive up prices on centralized exchanges by placing buy orders on those venues and selling the initial position on GMX at higher prices.
@GMX_IO should have honestly put a cap way earlier to avoid those issues due to 0% price impact, not hard to do, especially that you have been warned and aware that such manipulations were possible. pic.twitter.com/m2RjTsc6uh
It’s important to note that this strategy won't work on two centralized exchanges, because a trader placing high bids on one venue would mean prices automatically move higher on that exchange and other exchanges immediately raise the price of assets on their own systems – meaning the strategy is unlikely to net any profits.
In several tweets on Sunday, Joshua Lim, head of derivatives at Genesis Global Trading, said the trader exploited the GMX loophole five times, netting over $500,000 to $700,000 in total profits. Security firm PeckShield pegged the gains at $565,000 on Sunday morning in a tweet that’s since been deleted. (Genesis and CoinDesk are both owned by Digital Currency Group.)
The trader put on positions of between $4 million to $5 million each time, Lim said, and extracted over $158,000 in the first trade he did. Lim added that this wasn’t a typical exploit as GMX worked “as designed.”
5/ this isn't an exploit as much as GMX working as designed! X executed large trades in against GLP holders with 0 slippage: at the oracle price without factoring any price impact

in the real world, putting on risk requires you to pay liquidity providers on the opposite side
GMX developers said late Sunday that they were reviewing the loophole and had, in the meantime, capped open interest, or the number of unsettled futures contracts, at $2 million for AVAX on their exchange. A key developer said a solution can be expected in two weeks.
The price of GMX’s native token fell 12% in the past 24 hours amid a broader crypto market decline, extending the token's two-week losses to over 30%, data shows."
183,843,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/20/voyager-seeks-to-unwind-alameda-loan/,Crypto Lender Voyager Digital Seeks to ‘Unwind’ $200M Loan to Alameda Research,"Alameda, a firm run by FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, had said it is ""happy to return"" the loan to the firm that's now in bankruptcy.",2022-09-20,"Voyager Digital, an insolvent crypto lender that is auctioning off its assets, has asked a federal bankruptcy court in New York for permission to “unwind” a $200 million loan it made to trading firm Alameda Research, according to a court filing.
In exchange for repaying the loan, Alameda would receive $160 million back in its pledged collateral. The loan, which was made in September of last year, is denominated largely in bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and USD Coin (USDC).
Alameda was founded by Sam Bankman-Fried, the billionaire crypto entrepreneur who also founded FTX, a crypto exchange. FTX has its own link to Voyager. Last week, CoinDesk reported that it's in the lead to purchase Voyager's assets through an auction taking place in its bankruptcy case.
In July, Alameda tweeted that it's ""happy to return the Voyager loan and get our collateral back whenever works for Voyager.""
Alameda Ventures, a firm that is separate from Alameda Research but that is also controlled by Bankman-Fried, has also loaned $200 million in cash and USDC as well as 15,000 BTC to Voyager in order to “mitigate current market conditions.” Alameda Ventures is a Voyager shareholder.
Changpeng Zhao, CEO of Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, has previously tweeted that the complex relationship between all of the firms is ""hard to follow."" Binance has also tried to buy Voyager, CoinDesk has reported.
The court filing also requests that both parties' cryptocurrency wallet addresses remain confidential.
Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July after it faced a swarm of requests by customers to withdraw their funds as cryptocurrency prices spiraled down in the aftermath of the collapse of Terra network's UST stablecoin and related LUNA token.
Read more: Voyager Kept Taking Buy Orders After Freezing Crypto Transfers; Now, This Trader Is Stuck"
184,1107,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/20/first-mover-asia-where-in-the-world-is-do-kwon-terra-co-founders-absence-highlights-the-complications-of-extradition-cryptos-climb-ahead-of-fomc/,First Mover Asia: Where in the World Is Do Kwon? Terra Co-Founder’s Absence Highlights the Complications of Extradition; Cryptos Climb Ahead of FOMC,"Kwon, who is no longer in Singapore, says he is not ""on the run,"" although Korean authorities have asked Interpol to issue a ""red notice"" requesting his arrest; Taiwan is an unlikely hideout.",2022-09-20,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos see-saw as the next FOMC meeting nears.
Insights: Where is Terraform Labs co-founder Do Kwon? Taiwan is an unlikely hideout, and extraditions can be complicated.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,554 +0.8%
● Ether (ETH): $1,378 +3.4%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $966 +1.4%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,899.89 +0.7%
● Gold: $1,684 per troy ounce +0.7%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.49% +0.04
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Cryptos Dip Early and Then Rise
By James Rubin
Cryptos seesawed in Monday trading, ultimately regaining ground after dipping sharply earlier in the day.
Bitcoin was recently trading above $19,500, slightly above where it stood 24 hours earlier, although more than 6% higher than its low toward the close of Asian equity markets. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had sunk to a three-month low under $18,400 as investors during Asia and Europe trading hours sent most risk assets lower amid heightened recessionary fears.
""Not only just cryptocurrencies but also all risk assets in general are being sold off in anticipation for the pending ... worldwide recession,"" Adam See, senior vice president and head of digital assets at Global X ETFs, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program.
Ether was recently changing hands just under $1,400, a more than 3% gain from the previous day and up more than 8% from its perch under $1,300 early Monday. The second-largest crypto in market value had dropped to its lowest level since July.
Most other major cryptos were in the green after climbing over the course of the day with XRP and SOL each recently up more than 4% and ALGO rising over 7%. Among the biggest losers, TRX and UNI were both off approximately a percentage point.
Stocks
Crypto prices tracked equity indexes, continuing a trend they have largely followed this year, with the tech heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) each climbing the better part of a percentage point. The gains followed the Nasdaq and S&P's worst weeks since June and came as the yields on 10-year and more interest-rate responsive two-year yields reached heights not seen for well over a decade. Crypto prices typically move in the opposite direction of yields.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index declined three points to 46, a ninth consecutive monthly drop that offered the latest evidence of the once hot housing market's cooling. The index measures building activity. Investors will be scrutinizing the release of housing starts on Tuesday and the U.S. central bank's decision on its next interest rate hike later in the week. The Federal Reserve is widely expected to continue its monetary hawkishness by boosting the rate by 75 basis points for a third straight time.
""I think 75 is probably the right number in terms of the Fed interest rate hike, Global X ETF's See said, although he added that Fed Chair Jerome Powell's comments about how he views the market place's ""would be really telling.""
See said the Fed's aggressiveness suggested that ""we are probably in the middle innings of a recession, hopefully toward the later end."" But he also noted optimistically that the ""crypto winter feels different,"" highlighting ""strong venture capital funding flowing into crypto and Web3 companies"" and TradFi companies' soaring interest in the digital asset space.""
""There's a lot of compelling development within this crypto winter,"" he said.
Meanwhile, as CoinDesk reported, despite Merge hype, investors remained cautious on the blockchain’s native token ETH. Investment products tied to ETH saw a fourth straight week of outflows in the period ended Sept. 16, with the amount removed exceeding new money added by $15.4 million, according to CoinShares.
In a Monday newsletter, Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer for asset manager Arca, called ether's recent, steep price decline ""surprising, but not entirely unexpected.""
""Ultimately, it appears the Merge itself did not immediately attract new buy interest, or new buyers are about to get a nice discount courtesy of momentum traders with itchy trigger fingers,"" Dorman wrote but added: ""Long ETH for the next six to 12 months as ETH benefits from being the most pure play blockchain investment and because it's just simple math.""
The Mysterious Whereabouts of Do Kwon and the Complications of Extradition
By Sam Reynolds
Taiwan has a government, clearly defined territory, a currency, a national language, and a military; but because of pressure from the People’s Republic of China, it’s excluded from most of the world’s international organizations, including the United Nations, World Health Organization, International Civil Aviation Organization and Interpol.
Now one might think, if a country is excluded from Interpol, it might be a nice place to hide out if you have an Interpol ""red notice"" attached to your name, as Do Kwon, the co-founder of Terraform Labs may have after South Korean prosecutors asked the international police organization to apply the tag to Kwon.
South Korea has extradition treaties with 31 countries worldwide, but there are 195 members of Interpol. Even if Kwon is in a country that doesn’t have a formal extradition treaty with South Korea, “extradition is possible based on a guarantee of reciprocity from the requesting state that it will accept extradition requests from Korea for identical or similar offenses,” according to a briefing note prepared on the topic by Korean lawyers published by consultancy GIR Insight.
The latest episode in the Terra saga highlights not only the options Korean authorities may have to take Kwon into custody but also the challenges of extradition. Since launching its International Fugitive Round-Up and Arrest (INFRA) program in 2009, Interpol operations have led to the location or arrest of about 1,000 fugitives, according to the law enforcement agency’s website, but international relationships with law enforcement issues can be complicated.
In a tweet, Kwon insisted that he was not ""on the run.""
I am not “on the run” or anything similar - for any government agency that has shown interest to communicate, we are in full cooperation and we don’t have anything to hide
Taiwan is cooperative
Despite Taiwan’s exclusion from Interpol, authorities there have shown great interest in international cooperation on judicial matters and mutual legal assistance by signing agreements with many countries worldwide. South Korea isn’t on the list, but it has an agreement on the “exchange of judicial materials” with Taiwan.
Locally, the government has updated its extradition laws to align with international practices. The law says that Taiwan can refuse extradition requests on limited grounds including: “risks to Taiwan's sovereignty, national security, public order, or international reputation.”
A previous case
Perhaps the most famous case of Taiwanese authorities working with international counterparts involves another tech scofflaw: Cody Wilson, the first person to create a 3D-printed gun.
Wilson’s claim to fame involved selling the files – not the gun itself – to print these weapons, and has had moderate success defending himself under the principle of code-is-speech before eventually reaching a settlement in 2018 that allowed the continued sale of these files.
But shortly after the settlement, Wilson was a wanted man on charges of soliciting a prostitute who was underage. Wilson’s passport was quickly canceled, and authorities in Taiwan arrested him on grounds of unlawful immigration status and delivered him to U.S. Marshals waiting at the Taipei airport. Back in the U.S., Wilson later pleaded guilty to a lesser charge.
Since then there have been many other lower-profile cases of extradition, but they have not been tied up in court or disregarded because of a lack of a treaty.
Aside from Taiwan, another place Kwon might be lying low is Palau, which is also not a member of Interpol.
Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao is said to be a frequent visitor to the island country, as Binance helped set up its Digital ID initiative. Zhao is no fan of Kwon or Terra, but it would certainly be amusing if they were neighbors.
U.S. Federal Open Market Committee meeting to discuss potential interest rate increase
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): People's Bank of China interest rate decision
8:30 p.m. H1HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. housing starts (Aug./MoM)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Market Sell-Off Sends Bitcoin Below $19K Ahead of Upcoming Fed Decision
Bitcoin, ether and the broader crypto market take a big hit once more as investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again this week. Adam Sze of Global X ETFs shared his crypto markets outlook. And Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.), speaking with CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De, discusses the ""notable momentum"" he sees in crypto regulation in Washington.
Goldman's Bullish Stance on 'Real Bond Yield' Spells Bad News for Crypto: Real yields turned positive early early this year, removing the punch bowl that lubricated the party in risky assets, including cryptocurrencies.
Crypto Exchange FTX Not Authorized in UK, Financial Watchdog Warns: However, FTX told Bloomberg it believes a scammer is impersonating the company.
As Ether, Bitcoin Wilt, Trading Firms Blame Lack of Bullish Catalyst for Market Swoon: ETH deposits to exchanges have yet to pull back, one observer noted. Investors began moving coins to exchanges ahead of last Thursday's Ethereum Merge.
Australian Senator Proposes Crypto Bill Targeting China's Digital Yuan: The proposal lays out disclosure requirements for banks that could make China's central bank digital currency available for use in Australia, and seeks to set up licensing frameworks for stablecoin issuers.
S. Korean Authorities Ask Interpol to Issue Red Notice for Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon: Report: Authorities in Singapore confirm that Kwon is no longer in-country, while he maintains that he’s not “on the run.”"
185,1101,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/20/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-flutters-around-19k-sec-case-against-crypto-promoter-ian-balina-faces-one-big-problem/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Flutters Around $19K; SEC Case Against Crypto Promoter Ian Balina Faces One Big Problem,"Balina is charged with conducting an unregistered securities offering in 2018 for his SPRK ICO token, but proving that the Ethereum network should be subject to U.S. securities law will be difficult; cryptos largely decline.",2022-09-20,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and most other major cryptos declined a day before the U.S. central bank announces its latest interest rate decision.
Insights: Should the Ethereum network be subject to U.S. securities law? That question is at the heart of an SEC case against crypto promoter Ian Balina.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $18,875 −3.4%
● Ether (ETH): $1,323 −4.1%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $940 −2.8%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,855.93 −1.1%
● Gold: $1,674 per troy ounce +0.5%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.57% +0.08
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Flutters Around $19K; Ether Holds Under $1.4K
By James Rubin
Investors didn't need a crystal ball on Tuesday to know that the U.S. central bank will likely announce a 75 basis point interest rate increase in less than a day.
They mostly shrugged as the weeks-long, telegraphed move neared, sending bitcoin and most other major cryptos lower. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just below $19,000, down more than 3% over the last 24 hours. BTC alternated fluttering above and below $19,000 for much of the U.S. trading day.
""Bitcoin is lower as risk aversion runs wild as rates continue to surge,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst for Oanda, wrote in an email.
Moya added that ""this week’s central bank decision fireworks, which could help fuel any sell-offs to retest the (bitcoin) summer lows. Peak pessimism is almost here for crypto, which is needed before longer-term money piles back in.""
Ether was recently changing hands under $1,350, a more than 4% drop from the previous day. The second-largest crypto by market value, which traded in a narrow range, has fallen about 18% over the past four days and more than 32% since reaching a pre-Merge, euphoric high over $2,000 in August.
Most other altcoins stood unsteadily in a red swamp with ATOM and LUNA recently down about 11% and 7%, respectively, over the previous 24 hours.
Stocks
Crypto prices dovetailed with stock indexes, which also plummeted on Tuesday as investors continued their recent exile from riskier assets. The tech-focused Nasdaq, the S&P 500, which has a heavy technology component, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) all declined about a percentage point. The Fed's continued monetary hawkishness aims to quell inflation, which has reached four-decade highs in recent months, but risks casting the global economy into recession.
Central banks globally have been wrestling with the same dilemma and a number of them have raised their interest rates in recent weeks. Sweden's Riksbank became the latest, boosting its rate 1% on Tuesday, its largest increase in nearly two decades.
""The Riksbank is setting the tone for this week, and expectations should grow for more central banks err(ing) on the side of being more aggressive with fighting inflation,"" Oanda's Moya wrote.
Crypto news
Earlier Tuesday, Nasdaq (NDAQ) announced that it was starting a cryptocurrency custody service to cash in on the demand from institutional crypto investors. The initiative by the second-largest U.S. stock market operator follows a wider trend among large institutional investors and other Wall Street organizations that will be offering crypto products and services.
Last month, BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, announced that it will provide cryptocurrencies for its institutional clients, and Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which processes almost all U.S. stock market trades, released its own blockchain as it looks to speed up the settlement of trades.
Analysts have suggested that the trend bodes well for cryptos, although Bruno Ramos de Sousa, head of global expansion at crypto asset manager Hashdex, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that TradFi initiatives would have little affect on crypto prices.
""Looking forward is how much does news like this in terms of institutional adoption have the ability to impact the price action, and I think less and less,"" Ramos de Sousa said. ""We're gonna see that. It's become normalized to think that institutional players are into the crypto space.""
Should the Ethereum Network Be Subject to U.S. Securities Law? The Case Against Ian Balina
By Sam Reynolds
Crypto promoter Ian Balina was the subject of a criminal complaint by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), filed Monday charging him with conducting an unregistered securities offering in early 2018 for his SPRK token initial coin offering (ICO).
The SEC’s case against Balina relies on an extraterritorial claim: ""Their ETH contributions were validated by a network of nodes on the Ethereum blockchain, which are clustered more densely in the United States than in any other country. As a result, those transactions took place in the United States.""
To be sure, nodes on the Ethereum network are largely based in the U.S. Much has been written about the concentration of Ethereum – and other protocols – nodes within commercial data centers. Research from crypto data provider Messari shows that 52% of Ethereum nodes are based on Amazon Web Services cloud servers while 42% of Solana’s nodes are on Hetzner (a German cloud provider) servers.
Ethernodes data shows that 43% of these nodes, regardless of what cloud provider they are hosted on, are based in the U.S. while 11.6% are based in Germany.
But that’s the network of today. The SEC’s complaint is about activity in 2018.
Historical data about node distribution by country isn’t as readily available as current data. But the information that’s online shows that the Ethereum network of yesterday is more evenly distributed around the world.
In a 2018 paper, University of Massachusetts researcher Sunny Katkuri created a script to analyze geographical information about 19,000 public Ethereum nodes. Katkuri’s data shows that 33.6% of these nodes were in the U.S., 12.6% in China, 6.2% in Malaysia and 42.5% in other countries.
Earlier data from a 2016 paper by researchers at Technische Universität Berlin shows that IP addresses of data centers in Germany, Canada, Bulgaria and Singapore hosted the most nodes.
There’s also a technical issue here. Ethereum miners, which also run nodes to validate transactions, were at the time largely based in Europe and China.
So with that in mind, it's tough to conclude that the Ethereum network of 2018 was “clustered more densely in the United States than in any other country” and thus under the control of U.S. securities laws. It’s not in dispute that U.S. nationals purchased the ICO tokens, but the network on which the tokens existed wasn’t inherently American.
The SEC declined to provide comment for this story.
U.S. FOMC decision on interest rates and Fed Chair Jerome Powell comments
Mainnet conference
3 p.m. HKT/SGT(7 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank non-monetary policy meeting
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Nasdaq Latest Financial Heavyweight to Announce Big Crypto Push
Institutional interest in crypto is in the spotlight following a series of announcements regarding new crypto services from Nasdaq, Charles Schwab, Citadel Securities and Fidelity Digital Assets. EDX Markets CEO Jamil Nazarali, who will head up an exchange to service institutional clients, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the developments. Other guests included Bruno Ramos de Sousa of Hashdex and Celo co-founder Marek Olszewski.
Trading App Robinhood Markets Adds USDC to Its Crypto Lineup: Users will be able to transfer the stablecoin from the Polygon and Ethereum networks on Wednesday.
Crypto Exchange Huobi Global Enables Cryptocurrency Purchases With Fiat in Latin America: Huobi partnered with AstroPay, a company that offers online payment solutions, to offer the service.
Bitcoin's Pre-Fed Weakness Has Chart Analysts Focused on Support at $18.3K: That's a level where traders who have taken long positions may exit, according to one technical analyst.
A16z Leads $51.5M Round for Web3 Fraud Protection Startup Sardine: Sardine customers include FTX and Blockchain.com.
SoftBank, Deutsche Telekom Back $300M Fund With Web3 Component: The fund from DTCP launched in March and is still raising money. It is expected to close in 2023."
186,513,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/20/a16z-leads-515m-round-for-web3-fraud-protection-startup-sardine/,A16z Leads $51.5M Round for Web3 Fraud Protection Startup Sardine,Sardine customers include FTX and Blockchain.com.,2022-09-20,"Venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz (a16z) led the $51.5 million Series B funding round for Sardine, a real-time fraud prevention product for financial technology and Web3 customers. The capital will be used to accelerate product development and marketing and sales efforts, according to a press release.
“We believe Sardine is a key payments infrastructure provider across traditional and decentralized finance, and we’re proud to continue to support this team on their next stage of growth,"" said a16z Growth Fund partner Alex Immerman in the statement. “Sardine’s fraud-fighting technology helps move money fast and without risk, and their rapid growth is a testament to the criticality and strength of their offering.”
In January, a16z announced $9 billion in capital committed across its Venture, Growth and Bio Funds. Four months later, the firm debuted its fourth crypto fund with a record-setting $4.5 billion in capital.
San Francisco-based Sardine offers real-time protection by combining traditional finance data like bank account history with identity, behavior and device intelligence to better identify risks. The startup includes Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) verification often required for crypto companies plus sanction and transaction monitoring to prevent fraud at the time of account opening, funding or ongoing transactions. Its customers include crypto exchanges FTX and Blockchain.com.
Sardine also has an instant settlement offering that allows users to connect bank accounts and cards to on-ramp to crypto and instantly purchase over 30 different crypto assets or non-fungible tokens (NFT). The startup recently launched its direct fiat to NFT checkout product in partnership with National Football League legend Tom Brady’s Autograph NFT platform.
Other investors in the round included XYZ, Nyca Partners, Sound Ventures, Activant Capital, Visa, Google Ventures, Eric Schmidt, Vikram Pandit, The General Partnership, NAventures, ING Ventures, ConsenSys, Cross River Digital Ventures, Alloy Labs, and Uniswap Labs Ventures.
Read more: Consumers Lost Over $1B to Crypto Fraud Since January 2021, FTC Says"
187,1117,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/27/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-regains-20k-bucking-the-swoon-in-stocks/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Regains $20K, Bucking the Swoon in Stocks","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Sept. 27, 2022.",2022-09-27,"Price Point: Bitcoin has managed to regain the $20,000 level, remaining steady during the recent crash of fiat currencies against the U.S. dollar. Some analysts are predicting the cryptocurrency will decouple from stocks.
Market Moves: Short-bitcoin investment products assets under management rose to $172 million last week, the highest on record, prompting some profit-taking with the first outflow in seven weeks totaling $5.1 million.
Chart of the Day: The U.S. longer-duration Treasury notes now offer 4% yield, which makes risky assets look less attractive to investors.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin (BTC) regained ground Tuesday as equities remained weak, with the S&P 500 and Nasdaq closing down Monday. Some analysts are saying bitcoin has perhaps decoupled from broader financial markets that are on the downside, even if only briefly.
The U.K.'s pound recovered somewhat, as investors digested statements from the Bank of England. Bitcoin, after hitting lows of $18,500 over the weekend, is now trading above $20,000.
Over the last 24 hours, the world's largest cryptocurrency by market value is up 6%, according to CoinDesk data.
“Bitcoin’s recent bounce came a bit out of the blue and is reinforcing the decorrelation to equities we have seen very recently,” said Florian Giovannacci, head of trading at Covario AG.
“It was helped a bit by a weaker dollar, but for me, it shows the strong demand for BTC under $20k,” Giovannacci added. “This drop of correlation needs to be confirmed before speaking about decoupling.”
Unus sed leo (LEO), which is issued by iFinex, the parent company of crypto exchange Bitfinex, was up 7% on the day and is up 16% year to date. Matteo Bottacini, an analyst at Crypto Finance AG, said the year-to-date performance is “a result of great tokenomics.”
Uniswap (UNI) rallied by 17% on the day alongside gains for other altcoins.
In the news, crypto exchange FTX won the bidding war to buy the assets of bankrupt crypto broker Voyager Digital, Voyager said in a press release late Monday. FTX was bidding against Wave Financial, a digital-asset investment firm.
And, financial-services firm Galaxy Digital has teamed up with Chainlink Labs to bring crypto pricing data to blockchains.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements.
Crypto Fund Inflows Totaled $8.3M Last Week: CoinShares
By Lyllah Ledesma
Digital-asset investment products witnessed inflows of $8.3 million last week, signaling investors’ appetite for digital assets continues to be tepid, according to data from CoinShares.
Short-bitcoin investment products assets under management rose to $172 million, the highest on record, prompting some profit-taking with the first outflow in seven weeks totaling $5.1 million.
Investors dipped into ethereum, which saw $7 million in inflows last week, the first week of net inflows for the token after the Ethereum blockchain’s software update called the Merge and following four weeks of outflows.
The recent launch of a short-ethereum investment product saw minor inflows of $1.1 million.
U.S. Long Bonds Offer 4% Yield
By Omkar Godbole
The U.S. longer-duration Treasury notes now offer 4% yield. That has massive implications for both traditional and crypto markets.
The 4% yield on the 10-year note makes equities less attractive. Meanwhile, investors who poured money into the dollar-pegged stablecoins early this year, may now liquidate their holdings and switch to the relatively risk-free Treasurys.
Stablecoins are risky compared with the Treasurys and may soon fall under the regulatory hammer.
Recently, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler reiterated that stablecoins need more regulation.
Meanwhile, a New York court asked Tether, the company behind the world's largest stablecoin tether (USDT) to prove 1-to-1 backing of its dollar-pegged cryptocurrency.
London-Based Asset Manager Fasanara Capital Establishes $350M Crypto VC Fund: Fasanara Capital's $350 million VC fund will invest in fintech and Web3 companies.
Bitcoin Mining's Sustainable Electricity Mix May Be Declining, Says Cambridge University Research Organization: The CCAF uses publicly available data to run a theoretical model to estimate the environmental footprint of bitcoin mining."
188,426,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/27/ftx-wins-bid-to-buy-voyager-digitals-assets/,FTX Wins Bid to Buy Crypto Lender Voyager Digital's Assets Out of Bankruptcy,"FTX US's bid is valued at approximately $1.4 billion, according to a Voyager press release late Monday Eastern time.",2022-09-27,"Exchange giant FTX won the bidding war to buy the assets of bankrupt Voyager Digital, Voyager said in a press release late Monday Eastern time. FTX was bidding against Wave Financial, a digital-asset investment firm.
Voyager Token (VGX) rose after the announcement, gaining 3.76% as of 04:17 UTC, trading around 76 U.S. cents.
Crypto lender Voyager Digital filed for bankruptcy in July. Industry observers had been increasing their scrutiny of Voyager’s business practices, particularly how the Canadian-listed firm said in marketing materials that investors' deposits were protected by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance.
While FDIC insurance would indeed protect bank-held cash deposits up to $250,000, it would not cover cash converted to stablecoins. According to writer Frances Coppola, Voyager’s loan book accounted for nearly half of its total assets, and nearly 60% of that loan book was composed of loans to Three Arrows, which filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy, also in July.
CoinDesk was first to report on Sept. 16 that FTX was in the lead to buy Voyager's assets.
Read more: FTX Is in the Lead to Buy Crypto Lender Voyager Digital’s Assets Out of Bankruptcy: Source
UPDATE (Sept. 27, 2022, 04:36 UTC): Adds Voyager Token price in second paragraph."
189,288,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/27/cel-token-jumps-as-sbf-said-to-eye-celsius-in-buying-spree/,CEL Token Jumps as SBF Said to Eye Celsius in Buying Spree,The native token of Celsius regained momentum just hours after being rocked by the surprise departure of CEO Alex Mashinsky.,2022-09-27,"Celsius Network’s native token CEL rocketed upward late Tuesday amid reports that FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried could bid on the bankrupt crypto bank’s assets.
The token, which had nosedived earlier Tuesday after the surprise departure of Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky, jumped over 15% off its 24 hour lows following the Bloomberg report. It was trading hands around $1.52 at press time.
The fuel for CEL’s late-day rally came courtesy of crypto’s spending chief bailout officer, Sam Bankman-Fried, whose FTX exchange has been consolidating power in the crypto industry through whirlwind deals with distressed competitors. Late Monday, FTX won the bidding for Voyager Digital’s assets, valued at $1.4 billion; FTX claims it has $1 billion left to spend on acquisitions."
190,514,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/28/ftx-ventures-jump-crypto-lead-20m-fundraise-for-executable-nft-wallet/,"FTX Ventures, Jump Crypto Lead $20M Fundraise for Executable NFT Wallet","The wallet, a forthcoming project from Solana developer Coral, will give users ownership of application code.",2022-09-28,"Solana-based developer Coral has raised $20 million in a strategic funding round co-led by the venture capital arm of FTX and Jump Crypto. The capital will go toward building out the first flagship product, Backpack, a wallet for executable non-fungible tokens (xNFT).
NFTs are typically digital assets such as an image or song where an underlying smart contract proves the uniqueness of that asset. With xNFTs, the user owns the right to execute some type of tokenized computer code – essentially, the user owns the right to launch an application. The ability to launch multiple types of apps in one place could simplify onboarding, a common pain point in the crypto industry.
Read more: What Are NFTs and How Do They Work?
Explaining the purpose of xNFTs, Coral founder Armani Ferrante traces decentralized ownership from smart contracts to their resulting protocols and then up to the user interface (UI) layer such as applications and websites, which largely remain centralized. Backpack aims to decentralize the UI layer, starting with a wallet.
“We can move from smart contracts, go up the stack to the UI layer, where we can have decentralized ownership of code and provide all the developer tooling to make that happen,” Ferrante told CoinDesk in an interview, noting that the tooling includes smart contracts and the necessary app store. “Backpack serves as the native system, analogous to the iPhone, that allows people to use and interact with all of these applications in a native and secure way.”
Other participants in the round included Multicoin Capital, Anagram and K5 Global, among others.
Backpack will launch into private beta on Sept. 26. About 10 of the largest projects on Solana already have projects in development using Backpack’s xNFT technology, including NFT marketplace Magic Eden, cross-chain bridge Wormhole, decentralized finance protocol Solend and the developer framework Anchor, which Coral also created.
Jump Crypto’s participation comes about a month after the crypto trading firm and builder was tapped to revamp a part of Solana’s core infrastructure to improve reliability after a number of outages and slow throughput.
Read more: Robinhood Releases Beta Version of Web3 Wallet to 10,000 Users"
191,806,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/28/crypto-vc-pantera-capital-looks-to-raise-125b-for-second-blockchain-fund-report/,Crypto VC Pantera Capital Looks to Raise $1.25B for Second Blockchain Fund: Report,Founder Dan Morehead said at a conference in Singapore that the fund will invest in digital tokens and equity,2022-09-28,"Crypto venture-capital investment firm Pantera Capital is looking to raise $1.25 billion for its second blockchain fund, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday.
Pantera founder Dan Morehead said at a conference in Singapore that the fund will invest in digital tokens and equity, including shares in company Pantera already owns that have dropped in value.
The crypto industry has been treading water in recent months following its crash in mid-June. The market cap of the crypto market has been fluctuating below the $1 trillion mark since then, while the traditional markets are also experiencing turmoil.
“We want to provide liquidity for people that are kind of giving up because we’re still very bullish for the next 10 or 20 years,” Morehead said.
Pantera itself has suffered an exodus of its executive team of late, with Chief Financial Officer Ryan Davis departing the firm earlier this month. Davis' departure followed those of Chief Technical Officer Terence Schofield and Chief Operating Officer Samir Shah.
Pantera didn't immediately respond to a request for further comment.
Read more: FTX Wins Bid to Buy Crypto Lender Voyager Digital's Assets Out of Bankruptcy"
192,1116,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/28/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-falls-to-185k-as-bank-of-england-to-buy-bonds-to-stem-crisis-in-uk/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Falls to $18.5K, as Bank of England to Buy Bonds to Stem Crisis in UK","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Sept. 28, 2022.",2022-09-28,"Price Point: Bitcoin lost ground on Wednesday after gaining on Tuesday. Traditional markets were reacting to the Bank of England’s surprise plan to buy bonds.
Market Moves: Bitcoin has outperformed traditional markets in recent days for several reasons, including the absence of large sellers.
Chart of the Day: The options markets point to signs of a deeper sell-off in bitcoin.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
After breaking above $20,000 on Tuesday, bitcoin (BTC) has lost ground again and is trading at around $18,500. Still, the world’s largest cryptocurrency is up over the past seven days. Analysts aren’t citing any true catalyst for Wednesday's decline yet.
In traditional markets, U.S. stock futures and European indexes are dropping, indicating another painful day. This follows the S&P 500’s hitting a two-year low on Tuesday.
On Wednesday, the Bank of England said it will buy bonds to stop the spread of a financial crisis. This move caused an immediate reaction for bond prices in the U.K. The pound rallied, but remained slightly lower against the dollar on the day.
The rest of the crypto market was mostly trading in the red, erasing Tuesday’s gains. Cosmos’ ATOM was down 10%, Algorand fell 7%, and the token for the Near protocol dropped 6%.
In the news, cryptocurrency lender Nexo acquired a minority stake in Summit National Bank, a financial institution regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Celsius Network’s native token CEL rocketed upward late Tuesday amid reports that Sam Bankman-Fried, CEO of crypto exchange FTX, could bid on the bankrupt crypto lender’s assets, CoinDesk’s Danny Nelson reported. It was also announced that the Bahamas-based crypto exchange is moving its U.S. headquarters to Miami, only four months after cutting the ribbon on its headquarters in Chicago.
Decentralized-finance protocol Ribbon Finance, which is known for its on-chain structured products, said at the Token 2049 conference in Singapore that it is launching an options exchange to boost demand for its services among savvy crypto traders.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements.
Bitcoin Steady Under $20K in Face of Traditional-Market Turmoil, Here's Why
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin has outperformed almost every traditional asset in recent days. Observers said the cryptocurrency has stayed resilient in the face of renewed turmoil in traditional markets for several reasons, including the absence of large sellers, continued holding by long-term investors and quarterly options expiry.
Since the Federal Reserve raised U.S. borrowing costs by 75 basis points a week ago, the dollar index has rallied 4% while the S&P 500 has dropped by 6.4% and the British pound has crashed to an all-time low against the greenback. Bitcoin, however, has remained locked between $18,000 and $20,000.
""I think what we're seeing is more a lack of large sellers, rather than a plethora of large buyers,"" Mike Alfred, a value investor and founder of digital assets investment platform Eaglebrook Advisors, said. ""There are no large sellers left. Forced selling has already occurred.""
Read the full story here.
U.S. Long Bonds Offer 4% Yield
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin's six-month put-call skew continues to climb, indicating persistent demand for downside protection, even as the cryptocurrency remains resilient in the face of traditional market turmoil.
The put-call skew measures the richness of puts relative to calls.
Ethereum Merge Vaults Cryptocurrency Past Bitcoin in Hard-Money Allure: Ether’s drastic reduction in the net inflation rate is attributed to the elimination of mining rewards and the “burning” of transaction fees, experts said.
Industry Offers Cautious Welcome to EU’s Landmark Crypto Law MiCA: A near final leaked text is fuzzy on NFTs, and could strangle the stablecoin market, some worry, but despite that the overall reception to the bill appears to be positive.
Ethereum Project Ribbon Finance Launches Crypto Options Exchange to Boost Growth: Ribbon said it expects trading volumes to reach over $100 million a day within the first six months.
Luna Investors Failed to Appreciate the Risks, Novogratz Says: “When a token goes from 20 cents to $100 and you don’t take profit, that’s lunacy,” the CEO of Galaxy Digital said."
193,1109,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/28/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-tumbles-after-crossing-20k-in-topsy-turvy-trading-how-chinese-universities-teach-blockchain/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Tumbles After Crossing $20K in Topsy-Turvy Trading; How Chinese Universities Teach Blockchain,"The largest crypto by market capitalization had spiked over $20,000 in morning trading.",2022-09-28,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin started promisingly before sinking along with other cryptos in a topsy-turvy day.
Insights: Chinese universities continue to teach blockchain technology but employers, teachers and students are also looking outside educational institutions to further their interests. (This story is part of CoinDesk's Education Week series.)
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,103 −1.3%
● Ether (ETH): $1,334 −0.6%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $953 −0.8%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,647.29 −0.2%
● Gold: $1,634 per troy ounce +0.6%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.96% +0.09
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Other Cryptos Rise and Fall
By James Rubin
In topsy-turvy Tuesday trading, bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies rose early before crumbling.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just over $19,100, down about a percentage point for the previous 24 hours. BTC had surged above the psychologically important $20,000 threshold during morning hours (UTC) for the first time in nine days before clattering downward to more lately familiar levels.
Bitcoin's rise and fall came as investors initially may have tried to anticipate cryptos' historically bullish October by adding to their holdings. And two unexpectedly strong economic indicators may have also buoyed their spirits before. But investors later recoiled over inflation and recession fears that have plagued asset markets of all stripes for months.
Ether was recently changing hands at approximately $1,330, also flat from the previous day and its highest perch in more than a week. Most other major cryptos spent the day in red territory, with UST recently off about 7% and XRP down more than 5%. Celsius Network’s native token CEL spiked late Tuesday after reports that FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried could bid on the bankrupt crypto bank’s assets. The token had nosedived earlier Tuesday after the surprise departure of Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was recently down slightly and about where it has stood for much of the past week. The Fear & Greed index, a measure of market sentiment about crypto, remains in extreme fear territory.
Stocks
Crypto price patterns dovetailed with equity markets that jumped earlier in the day before tumbling. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), which entered bear market territory a day earlier, meaning it fell at least 20% from its previous high, closed a few fractions of a percentage point lower. The S&P 500, also dropped slightly, although the tech-heavy Nasdaq rose 0.2%.
Investors remain worried about inflation and continued central bank hawkishness that seems increasingly likely to throw the global economy into recession. Unexpectedly strong reports on durable goods orders, which sank less than projected, and housing starts, are likely to embolden the Federal Reserve to continue its recent policy of aggressive interest rate increases.
Fed Comments
In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Neel Kashkari, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, reiterated the bank's commitment to restore ""price stability.""
Earlier in the day, at an event hosted by the French central bank Tuesday, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that regulation of decentralized finance (DeFi) needs to be done “carefully and thoughtfully,” given its limited impact on the real economy. “The DeFi winter … didn’t have significant effects on the banking system and broader financial stability” due to the lack of links between them, Powell told a panel.
As bitcoin climbed above $20,000 on Tuesday, Oanda Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya called its resiliency ""impressive."" But Moya was less than sanguine about any significant prices increases in the near future. ""Bitcoin doesn't have a catalyst to extend much higher, but a stabilization is a welcome sign for long-term bulls.
How Chinese Universities Teach Blockchain
By Xinyi Luo
Oct. 24, 2019, marked the beginning of a tectonic change for blockchain education in China.
Speaking before the politburo of the Communist Party of China in Beijing on that day, President Xi Jinping said the country needs to ""seize the opportunity"" afforded by blockchain technology. These words would set forth China’s ambitious agenda to take a leading role in the global development of this emerging technology.
This piece is part of CoinDesk's Education Week
The universities of China received the message loud and clear. In 2020, 14 Chinese colleges established blockchain technology undergraduate degree programs, following Chengdu University of Information Technology, which had established the country’s first College of Blockchain Technology months before Xi’s speech.
But Xi’s ambition had and continues to have an inherent contradiction. While blockchain technology is admired by the Chinese, its most popular application, cryptocurrencies, is now illegal. In the past decade, China has banned crypto transactions (2013), initial coin offerings (2017), crypto mining (incrementally from 2019-2021) and – the final blow – cryptocurrency trading, in 2021. As a result, the very idea of blockchain is different in China than anywhere else in the world.
""When discussing blockchain, we cannot see it from a cryptocurrency perspective,"" said Jianhai Chen, associate professor in the College of Computer Science at Zhejiang University. It is ranked 24th in CoinDesk’s 2022 Best Universities for Blockchain. Instead, he threads a needle to teach blockchain for legally approved uses only. “What we want to do is to use blockchain technology to empower industries and solve existing problems,” Chen said.
Read the Full List: Best Universities for Blockchain 2022
How do Chinese universities educate students in blockchain and conform to the government’s wishes? Faculty, students and employers describe a push for massive technical proficiency that leaves those excited by the transformative potential of blockchain technology frustrated, ignored and forging their own path outside of institutionalized education.
Read the complete story.
Circle Converge22 (San Francisco)
Token2049 (Singapore)
Smartcon Web3 Chainlink Conference (New York)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Tops $20K; FTX Wins Bid to Buy Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager Digital’s Assets
Bitcoin (BTC) firmed up early Tuesday, having remained steady during the recent crash of fiat currencies against the U.S. dollar. eToro crypto consultant Glen Goodman gave his markets outlook. Plus, FTX won the bidding war to buy the assets of bankrupt Voyager Digital. And Gemini Chief Strategy Officer Marshall Beard joined ""First Mover"" to discuss teaming up with Betterment.
Christie’s Auction House Announces On-Chain NFT Art Platform: Christie’s 3.0 has teamed up with Chainalysis, Manifold, and Spatial to sell non-fungible token artwork on Ethereum.
California Regulator Targets 11 Crypto Trading Desks Operating Like 'Ponzis': California's financial regulator brought enforcement actions against 11 little-known crypto companies Tuesday, alleging they stole customer funds or operated like Ponzi schemes.
Crypto Exchange FTX Is Moving Its US Headquarters From Chicago to Miami: The exchange has been steadily building up its presence in southern Florida, including purchasing the naming rights to the NBA’s Miami Heat arena in 2021 for $135 million.
Blockchain Infrastructure Project Eclipse Raises $15m To Build ‘Universal Layer-2’: The $9 million seed round was co-led by Tribe Capital and Tabiya, and follows an earlier $6 million in pre-seed funding.
Introducing Education Week: How to Learn About Web3: Technology moves fast. How will we keep up?"
194,1118,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/29/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-holds-strong-over-19k-why-is-the-dollar-dominating/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Holds Strong Over $19K; Why Is the Dollar Dominating?,"The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has weathered severe macroeconomic uncertainty in recent weeks to maintain its current threshold,",2022-09-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major altcoins surge.
Insights: The dollar's recent strength in the face of the U.S.'s steep inflation seems illogical, but is it? (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris)
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,417 +4.4%
● Ether (ETH): $1,338 +4.8%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $960 +2.5%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,719.04 +2.0%
● Gold: $1,662 per troy ounce +2.4%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.71% −0.3
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Remains Resilient Amid Macroeconomic Uncertainty
By James Rubin
Say this for bitcoin, it's resilient.
Three weeks ago, before the U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates a hawkish 75 basis points, before bond yields rose to 15-year highs and the British pound tanked, before the Dow Jones Industrial Average sank into bear market territory, Russia escalated its unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the prospects of a severe global recession increased exponentially, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading above $19,000.
On Wednesday, BTC was still trading comfortably above $19,000, up more than 4% over the past 24 hours and seemingly impervious to the increasingly volatile macroeconomic environment. How long bitcoin holds above this threshold remains uncertain as is its previously considered role as an inflation hedge.
""There are a few things that we don't know,"" Defiance ETFs co-founder and CEO Sylvia Jablonski told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""We thought crypto would be this great inflation hedge. It would be the new gold and that didn't play out. It turned out crypto was highly correlated with equities, particularly with high growth stocks, Nasdaq.""
Ether showed similar toughness as it hovered near $1,340, up nearly 5% from a day earlier. Other major cryptos spent the day solidly in the green, with BNB and XRP recently up close to 5% and 4%, respectively, although the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures performance across a basket of cryptocurrencies, was roughly flat.
Still, crypto price gains tracked equity indexes yet again, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) all closing up about 2%. The S&P and DJIA had plummeted the previous six days with the latter falling into bear market territory, meaning that it is down at least 20% from its previous peak. Asian indexes were largely up in early Thursday trading with the Hang Seng recently rising about 1.8%.
Investors seemed buoyed by the Bank of England (BOE) announcement that would it would purchase U.K. government bonds to address a liquidity crunch in the market. The move also spurred hopes that other central banks might soon abandon their current aggressive monetary policies through which they hope to tame inflation.
Early in the day, BOE Deputy Governor Jon Cunliffe told an audience at the Operations, Post Trade, Technology and Innovation Conference in London that financial regulations should be extended to crypto before the industry becomes large enough to potentially threaten broader financial stability. Cunliffe has previously said that regulators should accelerate efforts to establish clear rules for crypto.
And in the ongoing saga of Terraform Labs co-founder Do Kwon, the company said South Korean prosecutors overextended their authority in seeking a warrant for his arrest, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal, citing a statement sent by Terraform.
Defiance ETFs' Jablonski said that cryptos' current pricing may offer a buying opportunity, albeit in the long term. ""I'm definitely feeling the headwinds in my face every time I turn on the news on a daily basis, but ... crypto has been oversold since August.""
She added: ""It's not a buying opportunity if you're looking for returns in the next two months. But if you have a holding period of 12, 18 months out, I'm more than happy to dip in here. I'm going to be very happy in a couple of years, and I'm going to feel a lot of pain if I look at it on a daily basis.""
Why Is the Dollar Crushing Global Currencies if Inflation Is so Bad?
By David Z. Morris
While the declining domestic buying power of a dollar dominates headlines in the United States, American inflation is having a surprising impact around the globe: Nearly every major currency has fallen dramatically against the dollar over the past six months. That seems like a challenge to the relentless focus on monetary supply that is widespread among cryptocurrency adherents.
China’s yuan has lost 12% against the dollar since April, and traditionally stronger currencies including the euro and yen have seen similar drops. Controversial financial decisions by new U.K. Prime Minister Liz Truss have driven the British pound down even more sharply in recent days, for a cumulative 18% drop since April.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
These moves may be particularly surprising for those whose financial thinking has been shaped by discussions in cryptocurrency circles. You might argue the tail has wagged the dog on crypto’s understanding of inflation: Bitcoin’s fixed supply has been aggressively marketed as a long-term inflation hedge, leading to an emphasis on so-called monetary inflation. Monetary inflation occurs when more monetary units compete for the same amount of real-world goods, driving prices up. Or, as a coronavirus pandemic-era meme elegantly simplified it, “money printer go brrrrr.”
But if the money supply were the beginning and end of the American inflation story, the dollar should be losing value against world currencies. The U.S., after all, had the second-largest fiscal response to the COVID-19 crisis of any industrialized nation, much of it debt financed. But if America has been borrowing and printing more money than Japan or China, shouldn’t the yen and yuan be gaining relative value on global markets? ...
Read more: Why Is the Dollar Crushing Global Currencies if Inflation Is so Bad?
Circle Converge22 (San Francisco)
Token2049 (Singapore)
Smartcon Web3 Chainlink Conference (New York)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Tumbles Below $20K in Volatile Trading; Future of Web3 Education
Bitcoin has tumbled back down to around $19,000 again after crossing $20,000 yesterday. ""First Mover"" discussed the crypto markets with Defiance ETFs CEO Sylvia Jablonski. Education Week continued with guest Alex Dwek of Nas Company. Plus, CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De explained the unusual case of the CFTC serving papers to a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) via an online members forum.
Steve Cohen-Backed Firm Invests $10M in Web3 Game Marketplace AQUA: The hedge fund billionaire has invested in crypto projects since 2018.
Bitcoin Off Lows as Bank of England's Bond Market Intervention Raises Hopes for Fed Pivot: Fed pivot talk gathers steam after BOE promise to buy long-dated gilts.
FTX Ventures, Jump Crypto Lead $20M Fundraise for Executable NFT Wallet: The wallet, a forthcoming project from Solana developer Coral, will give users ownership of application code.
India's Enforcement Directorate Freezes $1.5M in Bitcoin in Gaming App E-nuggets Case: The agency has been conducting several search operations related to an ""illegal loan apps"" scam with China links.
Crypto VC Pantera Capital Looks to Raise $1.25B for Second Blockchain Fund: Report: Founder Dan Morehead said at a conference in Singapore that the fund will invest in digital tokens and equity"
195,807,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/30/celsius-creditors-move-to-subpoena-lending-firm-equities-first-for-439m-collateral-repayment/,Celsius Creditors Move to Subpoena Lending Firm Equities First for $439M Collateral Repayment,The money is collateral posted against a loan Celsius took from the company and which Equities First was unable to repay.,2022-09-30,"Creditors of crypto lending firm Celsius have moved to subpoena Equities First, a lending firm which is embroiled in the Celsius bankruptcy.
The move comes after Celsius' former CEO, Alex Mashinsky, declared the company had borrowed money from Equities First, and when it attempted to repay the loans Equities First was unable to return the collateral. Mashinsky said Celsius is still owed $439 million from Equities First.
The creditors are seeking information regarding the loan agreements between Celsius and Equities First, any transfer of cash or crypto between Celsius and the lender, and also the reason behind Equities First's inability to pay back the $439 million collateral to Celsius.
Celsius was one of the crypto firms to collapse due to the market downturn earlier this year and has been struggling to pay back its creditors. The lending firm was looking at a number of ways to payback its debt, including IOU (“I Owe You”) tokens and selling off its stablecoin holdings.
On Thursday, Texas state agencies raised objections to Celsius' plan to sell off the stablecoin holdings. The potential stablecoin sale is scheduled for a hearing on Oct. 6 in New York.
It was also recently reported that FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried could bid on the bankrupt crypto bank’s assets.
At press time, Celsius's native token, CEL, was down nearly 0.5% at $1.45.
Read more: Bankrupt Crypto Lender Celsius Network's CEO, Alex Mashinsky, Resigns
UPDATE (Sept. 30, 2022 06:15 UTC): Updates headline, adds additional details in the third paragraph and additional background."
196,1112,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/30/elon-musk-was-mulling-creating-a-blockchain-based-social-media-firm-before-offering-to-buy-twitter/,Elon Musk Was Mulling Creating a Blockchain-Based Social Media Firm Before Offering to Buy Twitter,A series of text messages released as part of ongoing litigation over the failed Twitter deal reveals the billionaire's vision for a social media platform that would charge users to put short messages on a blockchain.,2022-09-30,"""I think a new social media company is needed that is based on a blockchain and includes payments,"" Elon Musk said in a text message just days before he offered to buy Twitter (TWTR) for $43 billion back in April.
The controversial acquisition, which has since fallen through, prompted Twitter to file suit against the Tesla (TSLA) CEO in an attempt to force his hand. Musk is due to face a deposition in October, but a series of texts sent and received by the billionaire released on Friday shed some light on what was going on leading up to the offer and what may have led to him scrapping the deal.
The text messages spanned 40 pages and the six months between January and June. The messages involve a number of public figures and entrepreneurs – from angel investor Jason Calacanis and American television personality Gayle King to controversial podcast host Joe Rogan – hyping the acquisition offer and gushing over the billionaire's plans for the social media platform.
Musk offered to buy the social media platform because he believed it failed to protect free speech and therefore threatened democracy. Text message exchanges in the days leading up to the acquisition announcement reveal Musk envisioned blockchain as a potential solution to Twitter's free speech problem.
""I have an idea for a blockchain social media system that does both payments and short messages/links like [T]witter. You have to pay a tiny amount to register your message on the chain, which will cut out the vast majority of spam and bots. There is no throat to choke, so free speech is guaranteed,"" Musk said in a text message to his entrepreneur brother Kimbal Musk on April 9.
Read more: Musk Sees Logic for Twitter as a Crypto Payments Platform
In March, before Musk's own blockchain musings, he received a text message from philosopher and author William MacAskill, who said tech entrepreneur and founder of crypto exchange FTX Sam Bankman-Fried was also ""potentially interested in purchasing"" Twitter to make it ""better for the world."" MacAskill then shares SBF's number should Musk be interested in discussing a ""joint effort in that direction.""
Musk replied: ""Does he have huge amounts of money?""
The text messages that followed indicate SBF may have spoken with Musk in early April before Musk expressed interest in incorporating blockchain to a social media platform to his brother Kimbal Musk.
On April 9, Kimbal replied saying he has ""dug deep on Web3"" and its ""voting powers are amazing and verified."" Voting rights could ""crowdsource"" kicking scammers out, Kimbal said, referring to another reason why Musk wanted to buy the social media platform – to rid it of bots and scammers.
""Blockchain prevents people from deleting tweets. Pros and cons, but the let the games begin!"" Kimbal said to Musk who had also called for Twitter to allow messages to be edited after being posted.
Kimbal also suggests exploring a native digital token for Twitter that users will have to hold in a wallet to be able to post messages. The token ""doesn't have to be expensive,"" Kimbal said, adding ""it will grow over time in value.""
Read more: SEC Calls 9 Cryptos 'Securities' in Insider Trading Case
On April 9, on the same day that Elon Musk was mulling a blockchain social media network, he texted Bret Taylor, chairman of Twitter's board of directors, telling him to expect an offer to take the company private. He messaged Taylor after Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal asked Musk to stop tweeting.
Although Twitter founder Jack Dorsey appeared to be supportive of Musk's takeover offer, things quickly soured between Musk and Agrawal. Through April, Dorsey attempts to smooth things over, even saying he wants to make sure Agrawal does ""everything possible to build towards"" Musk's goals until the deal is closed. But by the end of the month, things appeared to have worsened.
""At least it became clear that you can't work together. That was clarifying,"" Dorsey said to Musk on April 26, referring to Agrawal, to which Musk replied, ""Yeah.""
Read more: Does Crypto Still Care About Elon Musk?"
197,808,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/01/crypto-banking-platform-juno-raises-18m-in-series-a-funding/,Crypto Banking Platform Juno Raises $18M in Series A Funding,"Alongside the fresh capital, the company will be introducing its loyalty token, JCOIN.",2022-10-01,"Crypto digital banking firm Juno has raised $18 million in a Series A funding round to expand products and operations, and launch its first tokenized loyalty program.
This round was led by ParaFi Capital’s Growth Fund, and included well-known crypto industry figures such as Coinbase Chief Product Officer Surojit Chatterjee, Messari's Ryan Selkis, Polygon's Sandeep Nailwal and Jaynti Kanani, and a16z's Sriram Krishnan. Seed rounder backers included former Coinbase Chief Technology Officer Balaji Srinivasan and FTX's Venu Palaparthi.
Juno is a digital banking platform that encourages users to spend crypto in their everyday transactions. Its flagship product is the Juno card, where users can transact with Circle’s stablecoin USDC.
Read more: Lending Protocol Founders to Launch 'Neo-Bank' Offering Interest on USDC
As part of the fundraising, Juno is introducing a loyalty token, Juno coin (JCOIN), which will only be distributed to verified account holders. The loyalty program will be similar to traditional credit card rewards points. Juno members can earn JCOIN for taking their paychecks in crypto, or spending crypto with their Juno debit card.
“We think these banks are not crypto friendly,” Varun Deshpande, the CEO and co-founder of Juno told CoinDesk. The aim of the loyalty program, he said, is to incentivize those already predisposed to using crypto to fundamentally replace their traditional banking stack.
“Earning and using crypto are critical financial primitives for creating and growing a circular crypto economy,” added Deshpande. “Our tokenized loyalty program is meant to further accelerate the growth of this crypto economy.”"
198,29,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/02/crypto-futures-exchange-bitmex-ceo-expect-an-exchange-token-this-year/,Crypto Futures Exchange BitMEX CEO: Expect an Exchange Token ‘This Year’,"The launch of BMEX was delayed because of market conditions, but the exchange’s CEO wants to get it launched before the end of 2022.",2022-10-02,"SINGAPORT — Crypto futures and spot exchange BitMEX is planning on launching its exchange token, BMEX, by the end of the year, its CEO said in an interview with CoinDesk at the Token2049 conference in Singapore.
“If you launch a token in a market which clearly is not at all at the bottom, then your token will be drained down with the general environment,” Alexander Hoeptner, the CEO of BitMEX, told CoinDesk.
The exchange announced in July that the token’s launch would be delayed due to market conditions.
“Although we are ready to list BMEX, the present market conditions are not ideal, and we want to list the token in an environment that gives it the best chance to reward you, its holders,” the company said in the July announcement.
Like other exchange tokens such as BNB and FTT, token holders will be entitled to discounts on trading fees and other perks.
Hoeptner explained that the specific launch date depends on if the exchange’s team believes that there’s not another “tremendous dip” on the horizon. Launching just before a dip, he said, would mean that the attention is focused on the token’s declining price rather than the exchange’s new features or other accomplishments like its registrations in Italy and Switzerland.
“People waited for so long. They can wait for another month or two,” Hoeptner said."
199,706,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/03/us-risk-watchdog-poised-to-ask-congress-to-name-crypto-spot-market-regulator/,US Risk Watchdog Asks Congress to Name Crypto Spot Market Regulator,"The Treasury-led Financial Stability Oversight Council has responded to President Joe Biden’s executive order with calls for greater regulatory reach into markets, crypto firms’ affiliates and outside service providers.",2022-10-03,"The top U.S. financial regulators are warning of dangerous holes in the oversight of crypto and are asking Congress for more powers, including settling which agency will oversee the bulk of trading in bitcoin and other non-security tokens, according to a report unanimously approved at a meeting of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) on Monday.
The council's report flags several of the unregulated hazards in the digital assets industry, including the spot market for bitcoin (BTC). These latest recommendations from the group, which is led by Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, effectively bolster the two leading efforts in crypto legislation: a bill that would put the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in charge of overseeing that spot market, and another that would establish rules for stablecoin issuers.
“Innovation without adequate regulation could result in significant disruptions,” Yellen said during the council’s Monday meeting. She said the report ""identifies a number of current gaps in regulation"" and finds that crypto assets ""could pose a risk to financial stability.""
Read more: Biden’s Executive Order Produces Few Answers in Crypto Reports From US Treasury
The 125-page FSOC document concluded that potential fraud and manipulation in crypto trading begs for a spot market watchdog, according to a staff presentation at the meeting. Legislation in both the Senate and House would place the CFTC in that role, though the bills leave the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with authority to decide which tokens are ""securities"" over which it will have jurisdiction.
The FSOC – whose members include the heads of financial agencies, including the Federal Reserve and both the SEC and CFTC – is also preparing to recommend that U.S. regulators need to be able to reach into all corners of digital businesses. They not only need to be able to supervise a crypto firm, but also all of its affiliates and key service providers – as the Fed can do when it oversees Wall Street banks, the report will argue, asking Congress to grant that power.
This is the latest document – and one of the most anticipated – set to emerge from President Joe Biden’s executive order calling on federal regulators to come up with plans for overseeing crypto. While the FSOC will once again note that U.S. financial regulators do have powers that reach into much of the industry, the report’s recommendations rely heavily on Congress to step in and solve many of the government’s shortcomings. However, the current congressional session is nearing its end and lawmakers will be directing their attention to the midterm elections next month that will remake Congress. Thus, any reliance on the legislative branch could represent a long-term project.
""Crypto cannot exist outside of our public policy frameworks, regardless of what the crypto industry initially expected or what certain market participants might say today,"" SEC Chairman Gary Gensler said on Monday, adding that the policies need to protect consumers and financial stability, while also shielding against illegal activity. ""Whether you call something a crypto token, stablecoin or decentralized finance platform (DeFi), those public policy goals remain the same,"" he added.
As expected, the report calls for Congress to “create a comprehensive federal prudential framework for stablecoin issuers” that will let regulators set up guardrails around the tokens that are so vital to current crypto trading and future payments ideas. A high-profile bill in the House Financial Services Committee is seeking to do that.
The FSOC contends the crypto industry has been picking and choosing regulators – or often ignoring them completely.
“Crypto-asset entities do not have a consistent or comprehensive regulatory framework and can take advantage of gaps in the regulatory system and engage in regulatory arbitrage,” according to the report. It added that agencies should use their existing authority and coordinate with each other to block the industry’s ability to pick and choose the rules they want to follow and the regulators they want to deal with.
The FSOC’s recommendations also targeted the kind of proposal made by crypto broker FTX to directly clear its customers’ crypto derivatives trading rather than using traditional go-betweens.
“A number of firms have proposed to offer vertically integrated services so that retail customers can directly access markets,” the report noted, without mentioning FTX’s very public proposal being considered now at the CFTC. The FSOC is wary of the idea that customers’ under-margined positions could automatically be closed out at all hours, which the council argued “creates the potential for cascading liquidations and reduced capacity for human intervention during periods of stress.”
The council said its agency members need to more closely study such “vertical integration” and whether the structure “can or should be accommodated under existing laws and regulations.”
UPDATE (Oct. 3, 2022, 19:27 UTC): Adds council's approval and comment from SEC's Gary Gensler.
UPDATE (Oct. 3, 2022, 19:41 UTC): Adds recommendation affecting FTX proposal."
200,255,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/05/decentralized-exchange-token-gmx-surges-after-binance-ftx-listings/,"Decentralized Exchange Token GMX Surges After Binance, FTX Listings","GMX gained popularity for defying this year’s crypto rout, and it nearly hit its previous all-time high after the listings news.",2022-10-05,"The token of the decentralized exchange GMX surged close to its all-time high Wednesday as Binance and FTX, two of the world’s most widely used crypto exchanges, announced plans to list the token.
GMX jumped to as high as $60 from around $40, data on crypto price tracker CoinGecko shows, the highest since January, when the price hit $62. The token has since pared some of the gains, changing hands at $48 at press time. Trading volume soared, reaching $150 million in the last 24 hours, almost 20 times more than the previous day, CoinGecko data shows.
GMX is a decentralized exchange (DEX), meaning that investors can buy and sell tokens on the platform without an intermediary by using smart contracts. The platform offers low fees and so-called zero price impact trading, which allows more capital-efficient trading without slippage, which is the difference between the expected price of a trade and the actual price.
The protocol gained popularity among cryptocurrency traders as it defied this year’s market rout. As other decentralized-finance protocols saw their total value locked (TVL) – an important metric for how much capital a platform can capture – deflate, GMX’s TVL has grown consistently, and now stands at a record-high $455 million, according to crypto data provider DefiLlama. Holders of the GMX token earn 30% of all the trading fees accrued on the exchange.
Notoriously, in early September, a savvy trader exploited a loophole on GMX’s smart contract code to manipulate the price of AVAX, the Avalanche blockchain’s native token, netting over $500,000 to $700,000 in profits, CoinDesk reported.
Traders could deposit GMX and trade against BTC, USDT and BUSD pairs on Binance starting Wednesday at 10:00 UTC, the exchange said in a statement. FTX said it would allow trading in the token starting at 14:00 UTC."
201,316,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/07/binance-ceo-zhao-taking-different-acquisition-tack-than-ftxs-bankman-fried/,Binance CEO Zhao Taking Different Acquisition Tack Than FTX's Bankman-Fried,Both have said they're willing to spend $1 billion in deals this year.,2022-10-07,"While FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried has been pouring money into distressed assets, saying he has at least $1 billion to spend on such moves, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao's acquisition strategy has focused on expanding into publishing, decentralized finance (DeFi) and non-fungible token (NFT) projects.
""We did look at a lot of lenders in recent months, because that’s where all the issues are,"" Zhao told Bloomberg in an interview. ""Many of them, they just take a user’s money and give it to somebody else. There’s not a lot of intrinsic value. In that case, what’s to acquire? We want to see real products that people use.""
Binance so far this year has committed $325 million to 67 projects, according to the article. A $200 million investment into Forbes and $500 million of financing towards Elon Musk's Twitter takeover remain on the table – those deals could take the spend to more than $1 billion for 2022. By comparison, the company invested $140 million across 73 projects in 2021.
Zhao added that Binance may have interest in taking stakes in traditional e-commerce and gaming companies in the future.
Read more: BNB Smart Chain Resumes Operations After $100M Exploit"
202,40,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/07/ftt-token-surges-7-as-ftx-partners-with-visa/,Crypto Exchange FTX's Token Surges 7% After Visa Partnership Report,FTX has partnered with Visa to roll out crypto debit cards across 40 countries.,2022-10-07,"FTT, the native token of crypto exchange FTX, surged 7% after a report that payment giant Visa (V) has partnered with the exchange to roll out crypto debit cards.
The partnership will see the exchange release crypto debit cards in 40 countries with a focus on Latin America, Europe and Asia, according to a CNBC report. FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried told CNBC that crypto debit cards can disrupt traditional payment networks.
FTX first announced plans to roll out a debit card in January after rival exchange Coinbase released its own version last summer.
“Even though values have come down there’s still steady interest in crypto,” Visa Chief Financial Officer Vasant Prabhu told CNBC.
Crypto payments have been a slow burner since the inception of digital assets more than 10 years ago. Price volatility and a lack of desire to use scaling solutions like the Lightning Network has perturbed retailers, but accountancy firm Deloitte believes that is soon to change with a prediction that 75% of merchants will accept crypto within the next two years.
At press time, FTT was trading at $25.36. FTX did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment.
UPDATE (Oct. 7, 2022 11:46 UTC): Updates headline and lead, adds context throughout."
203,803,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/10/binance-exec-bnb-smart-chain-hack-could-have-been-worse-if-validators-hadnt-sprung-into-action/,Binance Exec: BNB Smart Chain Hack Could Have Been Worse if Validators Hadn’t ‘Sprung Into Action’,"Patrick Hillmann, chief communications officer at crypto exchange Binance, joined “First Mover” to discuss last week’s $100 million exploit and how validators prevented the worst-case scenario.",2022-10-10,"Validators on crypto platforms are becoming, out of necessity, more and more astute, said Patrick Hillmann, chief communications officer at crypto exchange Binance.
Over the weekend, BNB Chain, a blockchain closely connected with crypto exchange Binance, was the latest victim in a hack that ultimately drained the ecosystem of $100 million in crypto. The exploit, however, could’ve been worse.
“[The] elephant in the room here is as these attacks become more sophisticated … [I]f they were more organized, [the hackers] probably could have gotten more funds off of the ecosystem than they did,” Hillman said during an appearance on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” on Monday.
While the hackers were able to get away with roughly $100 million, the potential amount could have been as much as $570 million.
Read more: BNB Smart Chain Resumes Operations After $100M Exploit
“What we’re seeing here is that as we see more of these attacks on bridges, the communities that rally around these blockchains are getting much better at shutting them down quickly, updating their systems and being able to prevent a worst case scenario from happening,” Hillmann said.
On Thursday, BNB validators noticed some strange activity taking place on BSC Token Hub, one of the platform’s bridges ,and came to the conclusion the bridge was being utilized to mint additional BNB tokens, according to Hillmann. He compared the exploit to a group of thieves breaking into the U.S. Federal Reserve, printing their own money and then walking away with it.
Nearly 90 minutes after the initial exploit, concerns emerged, with Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao estimating the bridge had been exploited for $100 million.
“Luckily that community, the validators, sprung into action really quickly, were able to lock down the chain and actually prevent the lion's share of that new minted BNB from being able to actually leave the ecosystem,” Hillman said.
The attack prompted 26 of BNB Chain’s validators to act, preventing what could’ve been a $570 million hack, or the value of the 2 million BNB tokens that were fraudulently created, from being siphoned out.
Regarding whether centralization on the BNB Smart Chain is an issue of concern, Hillmann said there are benefits that come with a smaller community “overseeing and keeping the doors locked at night.”
“Because those 26 validators are able to work with one another so quickly, they’re able to prevent that worse case scenario from happening,” he said.
Read more: Binance CEO Zhao Taking Different Acquisition Tack Than FTX's Bankman-Fried
Moving forward, BNB Chain’s validators said they would hold a series of on-chain governance votes that would decide whether the hacked funds should be frozen, as well as whether a bug bounty reward system should be put in place to prevent future hacks.
Hillmann said that to ensure the BNB token is growing at a sustainable rate, and because the hackers “didn’t steal someone’s money,” the BNB community is planning to include $2 million worth of BNB tokens in its upcoming burn this year as a way to “bring it back down to parity.”
Furthermore, Hillman said the BNB Chain community is working with law enforcement to track down the hackers, who he suggested could be “either a state-based actor or a threat group that is tied to a state actor.”
“In some ways this was a very sophisticated attack and in some ways it wasn't,” Hillmann said."
204,818,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/12/how-market-manipulation-led-to-a-100m-exploit-on-solana-defi-exchange-mango/,How Market Manipulation Led to a $100M Exploit on Solana DeFi Exchange Mango,"The trader capitalized on a lack of liquidity by manipulating the price of MNGO on decentralized exchange, Mango.",2022-10-12,"A rogue crypto trader utilized millions of dollars to manipulate the prices of Mango’s MNGO tokens on the namesake decentralized exchange (DEX) to eventually drain over $116 million in liquidity from the platform.
The exchange allows users to trade spot and perpetual futures using its on-chain trading interface at low fees. Some $30 million worth of crypto was traded on the exchange in the past 24 hours, as per CoinGecko data.
The move stemmed amid ongoing drama surrounding a bad debt within the Solana DeFi ecosystem that involved the lending application Solend and Mango.
As reported earlier this morning, Mango and Solend teamed up earlier this year to put together funds to bailout a large Solana whale that had $207 million in debt spread across multiple lending platforms – in a move that was supposed to backstop potential losses across the Solana ecosystem if the whale’s position were to be liquidated.
Solana-based Mango, like other DEXs, relies on smart contracts to match trades between decentralized finance (DeFi) users. This is key to understanding how the exploit took place: Smart contracts are wholly decentralized and are not overseen by a centralized party – which means a rogue trader can deploy enough money to exploit loopholes in any protocol without the risk of anyone stepping in to stop the attack before it takes place.
Two accounts were used to conduct the attack. On account “A,” the trader initially used 5 million USD coin (USDC) to purchase 483 million MNGO and go short, or bet against, the asset. Then on account “B,” the trader used another 5 million USDC to buy the same amount of MNGO, using 10 million USDC in total to effectively hedge his position, data on Mango pointed out by Genesis head of derivatives Joshua Lim shows.
3/ at 6:24 PM ET, attacker funded acct B (4ND8F...) with 5mm USDC collateral to buy those 483mm units of MNGO perps, at a price of $0.0382 per unithttps://t.co/ZHTcy9cWiF pic.twitter.com/ZCzuAYPsXE
The trader then used more funds to buy up spot MNGO tokens, taking its price from just 2 cents to as much as 91 cents within a ten-minute span. This was possible as spot MNGO was a thinly-traded token with low liquidity, which allowed the rogue trader to manipulate prices quickly.
As spot MNGO prices increased, the trader’s account “B” quickly racked up some $420 million in unrealized profits. The attacker then took out over $116 million in liquidity from all tokens available on Mango, which effectively wiped out the protocol.
Spot MNGO prices soon corrected back to 2 cents, falling under the prices that the trader first used to purchase MNGO futures on account “A.” That account sits at over $6 million in profit at writing time – but there’s no liquidity left in the platform to pay the trader out.
All in all, the rogue trader used over 10 million USDC to take out over $116 million from Mango, paying minimal fees for conducting the attack and doing everything within the parameters of how the platform was designed. Mango wasn’t hacked, it worked exactly as intended, and a savvy trader, albeit with nefarious intentions, managed to wring token liquidity out.
It’s important to note that the above manipulative strategy won't work on two centralized exchanges, because a trader placing high bids on one venue would mean prices automatically move higher on that exchange and other exchanges immediately raise the price of assets on their own systems – meaning the strategy is unlikely to net any profits.
Meanwhile, Mango developers said Wednesday that Switchboard and Pyth pricing oracles updated the benchmark price of MNGO to above $0.15, in line with the price hike on FTX and Ascendex. Oracles are third-party tools that fetch data from outside a blockchain to within it.
""Neither oracle providers have any fault here. The oracle price reporting worked as it should have,"" Mango wrote on Twitter.
“The attacker pumped and dumped the mango token, which is a thinly traded token,” wrote Kanav Kariya, president at Jump Crypto, a crypto fund that has heavily backed Pyth, in a tweet.
“Oracles just report the price. Pyth/Switchboard accurately reported the prevailing prices on exchanges,” Kariya added. MNGO is down 40% in the past 24 hours.
CORRECTION (Oct. 12, 2022 14:14 UTC): Amends paragraph about pricing oracles. Adds tweet from Mango saying pricing oracles worked as they should have."
205,812,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/10/14/here-are-the-most-expensive-nfts-bought-by-celebs-and-what-theyre-worth-today/,Here Are the Most Expensive NFTs Bought by Celebs – and What They're Worth Today,"Celebrities have been putting millions into NFTs since the initial boom in early 2021. But with the decline in prices in both Ethereum and the overall NFT market, we looked into what their purchases are worth now.",2022-10-14,"In April 2021, Paris Hilton released her first non-fungible token (NFT), telling CoinDesk at the time that NFTs had “literally taken over my entire mind and soul.” While Hilton says she actually began investing in cryptocurrency as early 2016, she really made a splash by being one of several celebrities who publicly “aped in” during the hype of 2021.
But times are different now. Since the start of 2022, ether’s price has plunged 60%, and NFT trading volume has decreased 88% since the third quarter of 2021, according to a report from Alchemy. As the bear market roars on and hype around NFTs has died down, CoinDesk wondered, what are the NFTs that celebrities bought worth now?
We took a look at what celebrities paid for NFTs at the time, according to rankings from crypto data aggregator CoinGecko, and what they would be worth now if they sold for the exact same amount of ether (ETH) today.
In December 2021, rapper and music producer Snoop Dogg purchased digital artist XCOPY’s work, Right Click and Save As guy.
Snoop purchased the original NFT for 1,600 ETH, or $7,088,229 at the time. With Ethereum’s drop in value, that same amount of ETH would be worth $2,083,456 — less than two-thirds its original value.
Snoop’s growing interest in NFTs and Web3 has been noteworthy over the past couple years. In February 2022, Snoop Dogg shared his plans to turn Death Row Records into an NFT music label, releasing a collection of NFT songs on OpenSea weeks later.
Entrepreneur and NFT influencer Gary Vaynerchuk (commonly known as Gary Vee) purchased CryptoPunk #2140 for 1,600 ETH – which was $3,953,216 in July 2021.
Snoop and Vaynerchuck paid the same amount of ETH for their tokens; however, Vaynerchuck got a better deal than Snoop by buying his token five months earlier. The price today for their NFTs would be the same for both men: $2,083,456.
Vaynerchuck, the entrepreneur who founded restaurant reservation platform Resy, owns over 7,000 NFTs according to a press release. He’s not only a collector but also a builder in the Web3 space. In May 2021, he launched an NFT collection called VeeFriends on OpenSea, and this past May he filed a trademark for Vayner3, his own NFT consulting firm.
Pop singer Justin Bieber is next up with his purchase of Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) #3001, which he bought in January 2022 for $1,301,550, or 500 ETH. Justin caused speculation on Instagram after he posted the photo of the ape without confirming he bought it.
Had Bieber purchased this NFT today, it would have cost $651,080.
Steve Aoki, DJ and music producer, purchased Doodle #2238 for 269.69 ETH, or $862,056, in January 2022.
If Aoki bought his Doodle today, it would have cost him $351,179 – less than half the original amount of his purchase.
Aoki has been an advocate for the growing Web3 space. Last April, he released Sci-Fi NFTs on NFT platform Nifty Gateway, and secured funding to create an NFT tv show in August 2022.
Infamous YouTuber-turned-WWE-fighter Logan Paul purchased K4M-1 #03 from the 0N1 Force Collection. Paul purchased this NFT for 188 ETH in February 2021 for $624,669, which would be $244,806 today.
However, this “Bumblebee NFT” has been in the news as a tweet claiming it was worth just $10 today went viral. When decentralized application data site DappRadar dug into the data, it estimated the token to be worth 8.12 ETH, or about $10,516, in reality.
Paul’s early steps into the NFT space allowed him to ape into collections at the start of the days of the hype. He currently holds several CryptoPunks, World of Women NFTs, as well as a Bored Ape in two accounts on OpenSea.
Neymar Jr., the Brazilian football player for Paris Saint-Germain (PSG), bought BAYC #5269 in January 2022 for 186.69 ETH, which was $569,531 at the time. If he bought the NFT today it would be worth $247,007.
Neymar purchased BAYC #6633 the same day, paying a total of $1.05 million for the pair.
While he made the token his profile picture for a moment amid the hype, his roots in cryptocurrency go deeper. In 2018, his soccer club made plans to create a social token with European blockchain company Socios, which has also partnered with Barcelona, Juventus, Atletico Madrid and Manchester City.
DJ and music producer Marshmello bought CryptoPunk #8274 in October 2021 for $504,069, or 130 ETH. Today, that would be $169,280.
Marshmello purchased other tokens previously, including BAYC #4808, which he purchased in September 2021 and sold the following December for a $180,000 profit. According to his wallet on OpenSea, the artist still owns CryptoPunk #8274, and also possess BAYC #9231, and several CrypToadz among other tokens.
“Queen of Pop” Madonna also aped into the NFT hype, buying BAYC #4988 for 180 ETH in March 2022.
At the time of her purchase, she paid $466,461. Today, it’s worth $234,388.
While Madonna purchased her NFT near the end of the hype period, she launched an NFT collection with artist Beeple in May called “Mother of Creation,” which, as usual for Madonna, sparked some controversy.
Rapper Eminem purchased BAYC #9055 for 123.45 ETH, which in December cost him $453,776. Now, the token would cost him $160,757.
Twitter user @Gee_Gazza, the original owner of the token, tweeted out his gratitude for the rapper purchasing his token, asking to write a lyric in his next song. Since Pete Davidson’s ""Saturday Night Live"" skit explaining NFTs in the style of Eminem, the rapper has released a collection called SHADYCON on NFT platform Nifty Gateway, with works inspired by the artist’s childhood and passion for collectibles.
Quarterback Tom Brady completes the list with his purchase of BAYC #3667 in April 2022.
At the time, he paid 133 ETH, or $453,062. Now, that’s about $173,187.
The legendary football player has made major plays into the Web3 space, co-founding NFT company Autograph and releasing his own collections there. Prior to that, Brady said he and Gisele Bündchen purchased equity in crypto exchange FTX in June 2021. While he hasn’t disclosed specifically what he owns, he has confirmed he’s invested in cryptocurrency.
When celebrities purchase an NFT, it often makes the news in stories of excess and hype. However, the reasons may vary – whether it be for an effort to contribute real value to growing Web3 communities or just to hop on the trend.
While less than favorable market conditions have prompted pivots in the NFT space, it will be interesting to watch which celebrities continue to purchase digital assets and evangelize for the utility and community side of NFTs, while others change their PFPs and lose interest in their once-shiny purchases."
206,708,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/17/aptos-blockchain-goes-live-on-mainnet/,"Aptos Debuts Its Blockchain, Putting Millions in VC Dollars to the Test",The venture capital darling has been anticipated for months.,2022-10-17,"Aptos Labs blockchain launched its mainnet on Monday, becoming the first of the Facebook spin-off networks to premiere and putting to the test its multibillion-dollar valuation.
Aptos is the brainchild of several ex-Meta employees who pioneered the company’s failed diem stablecoin. The Aptos blockchain’s code is written with Move, the Rust-based programming language favored by Mysten Labs' Sui blockchain, another upcoming network.
While Aptos Labs has declared its network ""live,"" its ecosystem is far from completed, with dozens of teams yet to launch the wallets, trading venues and non-fungible token tech essential to decentralized finance (DeFi). Until those – and a token – debut, there won't be much to do on Aptos
The blockchain itself is up and running, having completed its ""genesis transaction"" on Oct. 12. Even so, the infrastructure has proven rocky; People building within Aptos told CoinDesk the mainnet rollout was ""rushed.""
The buzzed-about blockchain first made headlines in March after securing $200 million in a funding round led by a16z, with major investors including Tiger Global, Katie Haun, Multicoin Capital, FTX Ventures, Coinbase Ventures, Binance Labs and PayPal Ventures rushing in to finance the project.
That flood of investor dollars was quickly followed by another gold rush when, in July, Aptos closed a $150 million Series A round led by FTX Ventures and Jump Crypto, with participation from Binance Labs. The second funding round set the company’s. reported valuation at $2 billion, four times higher than the company’s previous valuation just six months earlier.
Living up to that lofty valuation may prove pivotal to Aptos' stated goal of becoming the home for Web3. It has taken direct aim at other faster and cheaper alternatives to Ethereum, perhaps most notably Solana, another blockchain in the Rust language family.
UPDATE (Oct. 17, 2022 20:23 UTC) – Adds details and context throughout.
CORRECTION (Oct. 18, 2022 00:44 UTC) – Aptos nodes have not crashed."
207,293,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/18/whats-in-a-name-apricot-finances-token-surges-on-similarity-to-aptos-tokens-ticker/,What's in a Name? Apricot Finance's Token Surges on Similarity to Aptos Token's Ticker,"Trading volumes of the tokens jumped from under $70,000 on Monday to over $2.2 million.",2022-10-18,"Tokens of the lending application Apricot Finance, which was launched in 2021, surged on Tuesday despite the lack of any recent technical upgrade and little chatter on its social media forums.
An unintended anomaly caused the surge instead. Apricot Finance’s APT tokens – which surged some 70% in the past 24 hours – share the same ticker as Aptos’ native APT tokens.
Aptos launched on Monday and its tokens are slated to be offered on major crypto exchanges Binance and FTX.
That didn’t stop traders from taking bets on the existing APT. Trading volumes on Apricot’s APT jumped from under $70,000 on Monday to over $2.2 million on Tuesday afternoon, with prices continuing to increase at writing time. The tokens are traded on Gate and LATOKEN, two medium-tier crypto exchanges.
However, there was no increase in the total value locked (TVL) on Apricot, which remained unchanged at $5 million.
Meanwhile, some community members warned others from buying into the hype. “Keep buying the wrong one,” said one member on the CoinMarketCap forum. “Guys binance will list APTOS (APT). Not the one on the Gate exchange which is called Apricot Finance. Be Careful,” said another.
As such, there’s a long way to go for APT holders: The token price is down over 95% from last year’s peak of 30 cents, a time when platform TVL was $300 million."
208,510,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/10/18/ftx-a16z-backed-aptos-blockchain-off-to-a-rocky-start/,"FTX-, A16z-Backed Aptos Blockchain Is Off to a Sluggish Start",Transaction speeds and tokenomics disappoint on the first day of transactions for the ‘Solana killer’ chain run by ex-Meta employees. Can this protocol gain the trust of investors?,2022-10-18,"Aptos, a new layer 1 blockchain, established by former Meta (META) employees, that promised extremely fast transaction speeds isn't living up to those brisk expectations on its first day.
On-chain data from Aptos’ block explorer shows the protocol is currently processing four transactions per second. During the development process the Aptos team said that its parallel execution engine was capable of processing 160,000 transactions per second (far above speed demon Solana’s advertised 65,000 per second).
Also, the vast majority of these, as Crypto Twitter personality Paradigm Engineer #420 pointed out, are not actual transactions from users but rather maintenance messages from validators writing metadata to the blockchain.
Aptos is broken.

Aptos launched today - October 17, 2022 at 14:22:40

However, Aptos is currently has a lower tps than Bitcoin and a majority of tokens are either staked or ready to be dumped on retail investors.

Curious? Thread Below
👇
“It's hard to see how users can even use Aptos right now, I personally cannot find any rpcs nor connect with any validators to send transactions,” they wrote.
The engineer also pointed out that nearly 80% of the tokens on Aptos are staked, which they said will result in them being dumped on retail users.
In a post on the Aptos Discord, the team said the TPS shown was a ""function of network activity"" and having announced the activation of the mainnet only a few hours ago there are no user transactions yet. Those are expected to start tomorrow.
As institutional interest in digital assets increases, there’s a hunt for infrastructure that can keep up to the demands of real-world finance applications. Right now, Ethereum in its current form can do a maximum of 15 transactions per second, and has done an average of 13 TPS during the past month. Ethereum 2.0, when complete, will have a theoretical ceiling of 100,000 TPS.
Venture capital firms have been enthusiastically looking for this nirvana, and hundreds of millions of dollars have been deployed to build out faster blockchains.
Jump Capital, as an example, has doubled down on its commitment to Solana, investing in fixing the back-end infrastructure of the once-hot protocol, which has suffered from a number of high-profile breakdowns during the last year.
Jump has also invested in Aptos, alongside FTX and a16z in Aptos’ $150 million series A round.
But Ethereum, despite its sluggishness, still has the trust of investors with 58% of the total value locked in decentralized finance (DeFi) on that protocol, according to aggregator DefiLlama.
After Tron and Binance’s BNB Smart Chain, which have 10.2% and 9.9%, respectively, the rest of the total value locked (TVL) is split among protocols that have 1%-2% at most, like Solana, which has 1.72%.
Part of this long-tail distribution likely comes from the skepticism about the integrity of platforms.
As CoinDesk reported earlier, Solana has struggled with developers faking the size of the ecosystem and high-profile exploits including the hack of Mango Markets that preyed upon the immaturity of the codebase.
This won’t bode well for Aptos as Ian and Dylan Macalinao, who operated under 11 different pseudonyms while building for Solana, say they are moving on to Aptos next.
And Avraham Eisenberg, part of a group that drained $114 million from Solana-based DeFi platform Mango Markets last week before returning $67 million, recently tweeted, ominously: “So guys are there lending protocols on Aptos?”
UPDATE (Oct. 18, 2022 07:12 UTC): Adds details on amplification regarding transactions per second."
209,418,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/18/new-blockchain-aptos-unveils-controversial-tokenomics-apt-incentive-plans/,"New Blockchain Aptos Unveils Controversial Tokenomics, APT Incentive Plans","Tokens that private investors hold are subject to a 12-month lockup, while the entire circulating supply will be released in the next 10 years.",2022-10-18,"Recently launched blockchain Aptos published a summary of its token distribution and incentive plans amid reports of a slower-than-expected start and community criticism surrounding the amount of its native APT tokens held by private investors.
The initial total supply of Aptos tokens at Monday’s mainnet launch was 1 billion, with some 510 million distributed to community members, 190 million to core developers and the remaining to the Aptos Foundation and private investors.
1/ Creating a network for the people requires a tokenomics designed with the community and fairness at its center.

The overview of that tokenomics is available here: https://t.co/KeU7RXANkd
The Aptos Foundation holds 410 million tokens overall, which will be released over the next 10 years. Of that, 125 million APT is available initially to support ecosystem projects, grants, and unspecified community growth initiatives, and a smaller 5,000,000 APT available initially to support the Aptos Foundation initiatives for the Foundation category.
Read more: FTX, A16z-Backed Aptos Blockchain Is Off to a Sluggish Start
Another 100 million tokens are held by Aptos Labs, a centralized entity that develops and maintains the blockchain.
Aptos said tokens held by private investors and current core contributors are subject to a four-year lockup schedule from the mainnet launch.
There are rewards for holders who stake their tokens to contribute to the network’s upkeep. “Currently, the maximum reward rate starts at 7% annually and is evaluated at every epoch,” the post read.
“The maximum reward rate declines by 1.5% annually until a lower bound of 3.25% annually,” it added, pointing out that all transaction fees are currently burned but this may change based on future governance decisions made by the Aptos community.
Community sentiment toward the token plan remained largely tepid, with most criticizing the large allocation for developers."
210,399,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/19/aptos-token-opens-for-trading-after-blockchains-rocky-debut/,Aptos Token Plunges in Trading Debut,"FTX, Coinbase and Binance were among the first exchanges to list the buzzy new layer 1 token.",2022-10-19,"Newcomer cryptocurrency aptos plunged in value early Wednesday in its debut on major exchanges as traders welcomed APT into crypto winter.
The hotly anticipated layer 1 blockchain's token was listed in the $9 range – down over 30% – on CoinGecko within its first hour of trading.
Hours into its first day of trading it declined further, down 46% by 12:50 p.m. Hong Kong Time, to $7.37
Coinbase, Huobi, OKX, FTX and Binance opened spot trading for APT at 1:00 UTC Wednesday.
The trading came as Aptos scrambled to control the narrative around its token's rocky rollout. Founder Mo Shaikh had spent part of Tuesday defending the network's controversial tokenomics and allegations about its processing speeds from critics on Crypto Twitter.
It’s exciting to finally bring Aptos to mainnet.

Acknowledged that it could have gone better. Building a decentralized protocol from the ground up is tough! Aptos is fortunate to have a fantastic community that's constantly evolving together.

Addressing some concerns below:
Still, the confusion continued into early trading hours as Aptos' discord was flooded by a mix of scammers and community members unable to redeem their token airdrops. The wave grew so bad that an Aptos moderator muted the channel for the second time this week.
Tokens of lending application Apricot Finance, which initially had the same APT ticker as Aptos, also declined because of name confusion. The token is down 47% in the last 24 hours on surging trading volume. CoinGecko now lists Apricot's token as APRT.
UPDATE (Oct. 19, 2022 04:50 AM UTC) – Updates price data throughout."
211,819,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/10/19/reddit-users-open-25-million-crypto-wallets-after-launch-of-nft-marketplace/,Reddit Users Open 2.5 Million Crypto Wallets After Launch of NFT Marketplace,"Among the total 3 million users that have opened Reddit Vault Wallets, 2.5 million have occurred since its NFT marketplace opened in July.",2022-10-19,"Reddit users appear to be upvoting non-fungible tokens (NFT).
The social network’s users have opened over 2.5 million crypto wallets on the platform since Reddit released its NFT marketplace in July.
Reddit claims it has 50 million daily active users and grossed over $350 million in earnings last year, so its foray into Web3 may bring more revenue to the social platform.
The social network’s NFT marketplace requires users to set up a Reddit Vault Wallet to purchase and store tokens. The wallet allows users to manage community points stored on-chain that can be used for various in-app purchases.
Read More: Reddit Rolls With Arbitrum to Scale Its Ethereum-Based Community Points System
Reddit’s rollout of NFTs has been in the works since its initial release of CryptoSnoo” in June 2021, an NFT collection based on the platform’s logo, Snoo. In July, Reddit opened its NFT marketplace to the public, ahead of its August airdrops to users with high karma across four Snoo-based collections.
As the total number of wallets is roughly 3 million, it’s clear the interest in owning these PFP NFTs is driving adoption — the vast majority of new users have hopped on board in the past three months.
Across its collections The Singularity, Aww Friends, Drip Squad and Meme Team, the lowest floor price is 0.01 ETH, or about $13.
See Also: Reddit Expands Community Points Offering With FTX Pay Integration"
212,1065,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/19/crypto-unicorn-celestia-labs-raises-55m-to-build-modular-blockchain-network/,Celestia Labs Raises $55M to Build Modular Blockchain Network,The combined Series A and B round was led by Bain Capital Crypto and Polychain Capital.,2022-10-19,"Celestia Labs, the team behind the Celestia blockchain network, has raised $55 million in a combined Series A and B round led by venture capital firms Bain Capital Crypto and Polychain Capital.
The fundraise pushes Celestia into unicorn status with a $1 billion valuation and was four times oversubscribed, says a person familiar with the matter.
Other participants in the round included Coinbase Ventures, Jump Crypto, FTX Ventures, Placeholder, Galaxy, Delphi Digital and several other venture capital and angel investors. Celestia previously raised $1.5 million in a seed round last March at an undisclosed valuation.
Founded in 2019, Celestia Labs is remaking blockchain architecture by betting on “modular” blockchain networks, which Celestia says makes it easier to deploy and scale blockchains.
Celestia is a stripped-down layer 1 blockchain that focuses solely on ordering transactions and making the data for transactions available. The blockchain does not handle smart contracts or perform computations. Instead, these are functions Celestia’s model outsources to rollups or other blockchains, a core component of its flexible, modular design.
So far, the crypto landscape has been dominated by monolithic blockchains such as Ethereum or Solana, which have struggled with issues such as scalability and outages.
Read More: Blockchain Infrastructure Project Eclipse Raises $15m To Build ‘Universal Layer-2’
“For the past decade, crypto has been bottlenecked by an endless loop of new monolithic [layer 1] smart contract platforms, each racing to the bottom to sacrifice decentralization and security to provide cheaper transaction fees,” said Celestia Labs co-founder Mustafa Al-Bassam. “Web3 cannot scale within the constraints of a monolithic framework.”
A modular blockchain, according to Celestia, allows the core functions of blockchains – consensus, settlement, data availability, and execution – to be decoupled into separate layers, avoiding the trilemma that typically plagues monolithic blockchains.
Developers building Web3 applications in the Celestia network can also mix and match different kinds of infrastructure and still be interoperable.
“Modular designs are unlocking rapid experimentation across the decentralized application stack,” said Bain Capital Crypto partner Alex Evans in a statement. “By minimizing base-layer complexity, Celestia offers cleaner abstractions for developers and greater sovereignty for communities of users.”
Celestia launched its testnet in May 2022, but has yet to announce a token.
UPDATE (Oct. 19, 16:38 UTC): Corrects nature of launch to testnet, not mainnet."
213,813,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/20/stablecoins-could-fundamentally-alter-banking-system-says-us-fdic-chief/,"Stablecoins Could ‘Fundamentally Alter’ Banking System, Says US FDIC Chief",Acting FDIC head Martin Gruenberg argues that stablecoins need to mesh with regulated banking as well as the Fed’s real-time payments system and any future U.S. CBDC.,2022-10-20,"Stablecoins could have such a profound effect on the established banking system that U.S. regulators need to require the digital tokens fit in without disrupting it, said Martin Gruenberg, the acting chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), at a Brookings Institution event on Thursday.
Gruenberg’s agency is among the U.S. banking watchdogs that will have significant influence over how stablecoins are regulated. The FDIC has also had to weigh in with recent sanctions against firms – such as FTX US – that have made claims misrepresenting how FDIC deposit insurance backstops their operations.
As U.S. banks have increasingly sought to offer crypto services, including maintaining custody of customers' digital assets, Gruenberg said his agency has been cautious about allowing regulated lenders to engage.
The FDIC has also had some say over the federal government’s initial approach to stablecoins, which Gruenberg said will need to work in tandem with the Federal Reserve’s future FedNow real-time payments system set to launch next year. Stablecoins – tokens tied to steady assets such as the dollar that are used to trade in and out of more volatile cryptocurrencies – also need to complement “the potential future development” of a U.S. central bank digital currency (CBDC), he said.
“The development of a payment stablecoin could fundamentally alter the landscape of banking,” Gruenberg said. Payment stablecoins could change how credit is extended within banking, “possibly leading to forms of credit disintermediation that could harm the viability of many U.S. banks and potentially create a foundation for a new type of shadow banking.”
Gruenberg, who has been FDIC chairman in the past, is currently holding the seat on an interim basis because President Joe Biden hasn't named a permanent replacement. The White House last month nominated two people to join the board and is reportedly poised to also pick the next chairman. While he's there, Gruenberg has a role in cross-agency efforts, such as at the Financial Stability Oversight Council, to deal with crypto oversight. But he's been openly suspicious of crypto's usefulness.
""Thus far we haven't seen much evidence of benefit,"" he said Thursday, arguing that the industry has been focused primarily on trading. ""It remains to be demonstrated whether there's some potential there.""
To deal with stablecoins, he said Congress likely needs to intervene with new laws because “there are clear limits to our authority, especially in certain areas of consumer protection as well as the provision of wallets and other related services by non-bank entities.”
Gruenberg offered three ways to make stablecoins sufficiently safe, in his view: Have them offered through bank subsidiaries, insist they be fully backed by short-term Treasury bonds and put them on ""permissioned ledger systems"" that comply with regulations.
""The ability to know all the parties – including nodes and validators – that are engaging in payment stablecoin activities is critical to ensuring compliance with anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism regulations, and deterring sanction evasion.""
UPDATE (Oct. 20, 2022, 15:19 UTC): Adds Gruenberg comments on stablecoin safety measures."
214,814,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/20/in-defense-of-aptos-cryptos-punchline-this-week/,"In Defense of Aptos, Crypto's Punchline This Week",The much anticipated blockchain by ex-Facebook employees was off to a rocky start.,2022-10-20,"Aptos, the much-anticipated blockchain built by Silicon Valley wunderkinds, has become this week’s punchline in crypto. The project ain’t apt, people said following its rocky (and much criticized) debut Monday.
Its token, APT, dropped about 50% in its first 24 hours of trading and the crypto network that boasts a potential transaction count of 100,000 had only four per second at first. The project, which was valued at $2 billion in prelaunch private investment rounds, has a $959 million market cap as of this writing. Do you laugh or do you cringe at those data points? I guess it depends on the size of your bag.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
In speaking to a few industry participants this week at CoinDesk’s first-ever I.D.E.A.S conference, I got the sense that people were rooting for the project’s failure. While Aptos may offer a few technological innovations worth putting to market, it also represents the insider-first approach to crypto development that’s anathema to crypto’s ideals.
See also: Not Everyone Can Afford to Be Satoshi | Opinion
Aptos’ core team are primarily transplants from Facebook parent Meta Platforms’ failed Libra/Diem project, which itself was a controversy when first announced in late 2019. Libra, too, had a novel approach to crypto adoption: a stablecoin backed by cryptos, fiats and other assets that could have become a global reserve currency by leveraging Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram vast user bases. Meta owns those three social-media platforms.
Libra acquiesced to regulators’ demands immediately, and eventually, the original vision was so mangled that it become unrecognizable. In retrospect, Zuckbucks was dead on arrival because of people’s learned distrust of Meta after years of privacy abuses and other crimes against humanity.
But Facebook invested heavily in the project, and it developed interesting blockchain scaling products and a new programming language called Move. So when Aptos was announced, people got excited that something could be built without all of Diem’s baggage. After a launch that even co-founder Mo Shaikh admitted “could have gone better,” Aptos seems to have picked up some of crypto’s worst traits.
Cobie, a semi-pseudonymous market commentator who is something of crypto’s moral conscience, had serious apprehensions that basic facts about Aptos tokenization scheme – like the token supply and initial distribution – weren’t revealed before the APT token was listed on exchanges such as Binance, FTX and Coinbase.
Releasing those figures – less than a day before the token was available to trade – didn’t quell controversy. According to its blog post, 49% of Aptos’ 1 billion initial token supply will be going straight to “core contributors, investors and the foundation.”
Slightly more tokens are reserved for the “community,” and will presumably be granted to people willing to build apps and protocols on the blockchain. “Community” here, however, may be poorly defined: “a majority” (~41%) of APT will be disbursed to the Aptos Foundation and a “smaller portion” (10%) going to Aptos Labs, the blog states.
Insiders agreed to a one-year token lockup, meant to prevent venture capitalists and major holders from dumping on retail. About half of the total supply of those tokens, however, can also be staked to earn up to 7% in token rewards per day, and those emissions aren’t subject to the lockup (meaning they can be dumped).
See also: Is Crypto a Ponzi? Define 'Ponzi' | Opinion
It also appears that insiders were able to start staking on Oct. 12, five days before the mainnet launch. AkadoSang, a pseudonymous crypto analyst, called the scheme ""a sneaky way to get liquidity since backers usually hold [a] great deal of supply."" (FTX Ventures and Jump Crypto co-led a $150 million investment in July, and Coinbase and Binance both had “strategic investment rounds” in March and September, respectively.)
Despite all of the red flags here, I want to mount a quick defense of Aptos if only for the sake of balance. First, judging a just-launched blockchain for having dismal transactions-per-second counts seems like a low blow – nothing yet is built that anyone could transact with.
Second, Aptos’ tokenization scheme, far from being a fair launch, is in line with competitors like Solana, Near and Flow – all of which have since put their “community”-directed tokens to good work funding grants.
Lastly, while Coinbase and Binance’s “strategic” investments look shady, they seem to have just been buying tokens early so that people have something to exchange at or near launch. Aptos was highly anticipated, and they wanted to get into the market because traders wanted to get into the market.
None of this addresses a separate, important question of whether the world needs another layer 1 blockchain. Right now, every blockchain basically has spare capacity and block space – even Ethereum is cheap to use again. And in the last bull market, we saw most “scalable” blockchain, like Solana, run into processing issues because of scale – who knows if Aptos found the right solution there.
I’ll leave you with some words by gigabrain Haseeb Qureshi, who invested in Aptos through his venture fund Dragonfly Capital:
“Investing into a new Layer 1 is really about… building a more scalable operating system for blockchains. We're still at the beginning of this journey, right? Smart contract blockchains have existed since Ethereum, about seven years ago and we're clearly not done. These systems are so primitive, and we're learning so much in real time about how to make them faster and perform better.
See also: Dragonfly's Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Winter | Opinion
“I remember back when I first became a VC, people used to argue whether proof-of-stake was even possible,” Qureshi continues. “Now we’re in a world where the second largest blockchain has completed a transition to proof-of-stake. We've learned so many things about what's possible with respect to pipelining transactions, parallel execution of generalized computation – with what Solana has done, what NEAR has done, what Polygon and Avalanche have done right.
“A big part of the reason why we were excited to back Aptos is pretty clear: It's another step in blockchain evolution. Now, that doesn't mean that I know for certain that Aptos is [going to] win. But I can tell that what these guys are doing is important.”
UPDATE (OCT. 21, 2022 – 14:20 UTC): Corrects Jump Crypto's name."
215,815,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/20/first-mover-asia-why-bridges-are-so-vulnerable-to-exploit-bitcoin-falls-under-19k/,First Mover Asia: Why Bridges Are So Vulnerable to Exploit; Bitcoin Falls Under $19K,"One crypto developer says that centralization and reliance on private key holders are to blame, not the inherent technology and logic behind the bridges themselves.",2022-10-20,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin dropped below its bottom support of $19K.
Insights: Why have bridges been so vulnerable to exploits?
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin Holds Over $19K
By James Rubin
Bitcoin and ether continued their recent stationary ways, albeit more to the red, while several decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens declined later in the day after rising early, as investors fretted anew over new housing data and ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty.
Bitcoin (BTC) was recently trading just under $19,000, off 1.5% and just below the lower end of the $19,000 to $21,000 range that the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has occupied for more than a month. Bitcoin continued to trail its 20-day moving average, clear evidence of the bear market’s resiliency.
Ether’s (ETH) was recently changing hands at $1,273, down 2.4% from Tuesday, same time, and beneath its $1,300 bottom support for much of the past month. Ether has also continued its recent trend of trading below its 20-day average.
Other altcoins were recently down with XRP, ADA and CRO all off well over 2% from a day earlier. Even UNI, which jumped 3.5% at one point and was up 9.5% over the past seven days, was in the red later in the day (U.S. ET).
On Oct. 13, Uniswap, the decentralized exchange behind the token, announced that it had raised $165 million in a Series B funding round led by Polychain Capital. ""The fresh round of funding will support expanding Uniswap's product lines, which might include NFT trading in the near future,"" noted Katie Talati, director of research at digital asset manager Arca, in an email.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures the performance of a basket of cryptocurrencies, was relatively flat, recently falling 1.6%.
Traditional financial markets declined on Wednesday, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq, Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and S&P 500 each falling by a few fractions of a percentage point.
In major macroeconomic data, U.S. housing starts plunged 8.1% to 1.439 million in September, falling slightly short of the consensus estimate but reflecting a sagging of the once-torrid housing market. However, September housing permits, an indicator of future construction, rose by 1.4% over August.
Global inflation continued to tick higher, with Great Britain (10.1%) and Canada (6.9%) each reporting higher increases in prices than expected. Both countries recently increased their key interest rates by 0.50% and 0.75%, respectively. Hotter-than-expected inflation increased the likelihood that both countries would raise interest rates aggressively, similar to the U.S., where the Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) is expected to approve a fourth consecutive 75 basis point rate hike in November.
In commodities, Brent crude oil, a measure of energy markets, was recently trading slightly down but still hovering well over $90 per barrel, up more than 15% from the start of the year. Safe-haven gold declined 1.4%.
Why Bridges Are Crypto’s Sinking Titanic
By Shaurya Malwa
A key part of the crypto ecosystem has repeatedly received harsh criticism in the past several months because of their importance and yet fragile architecture, which has led to an estimated $2 billion in losses this year alone.
Bridges, or blockchain-based tools that connect different networks, are essential for the movement of liquidity in the crypto ecosystem. Bridges allow users to transfer tokens and other digital assets, such as non-fungible tokens (NFT), between various chains – solving what was previously a difficult problem.
But the security for bridges is still in developing mode. February saw Wormhole’s $375 million exploit, followed by a $625 million exploit of Ronin Bridge next month. Then in August, Nomad Bridge was attacked for $190 million.
But what makes bridge attacks so common?
Crypto developer Hart Lambur says that centralization and reliance on private key holders are to blame, rather than the inherent technology and logic behind the bridges themselves.
“Multisig exploits clearly demonstrate why it’s essential for the ecosystem to have decentralized bridges that rely not on keyholders, but instead on dispute resolution in which anyone can dispute data or behavior that appears to be incorrect or malicious,” Lambur, the co-founder and CEO of Risk Labs, the foundation and team behind UMA, told CoinDesk in a recent interview.
By controlling a majority of the votes, the attacker can approve any transfers. In the Ronin Network hack, for example, five of the bridge’s nine validators were compromised in this way.
Insisting on decentralized bridges
“It’s extremely dangerous to put control of those funds in the hands of a few people. Users should demand and insist on using decentralized bridges to protect their funds,” Lambur added.
“Decentralized bridges are few and far between, but we are making progress and developing optimistic design patterns in bridges that reduce the risk of exploits. An optimistic design pattern means that transactions can proceed ‘optimistically’ unless someone – anyone – disputes a transaction or piece of data.”
“Addressing the security of cross-chain bridges should also include regular tests or audits, due diligence on networks, and chain integrations,” Lambur said
Lambur and others say security should be a constant process, rather than a set-it-and-forget-it system.
“Builders should always take the time to consider edge cases where systems may fail, simulating and patching these issues to spot any weaknesses,” he explained. “Alongside this, you need robust systems in place for constant monitoring which ensures the team can act swiftly if needs be.”
“Audits that check contracts for complexities or vulnerabilities are imperative to ensure your bridge has been sufficiently stress-tested,” he further stated. But is anyone listening?
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC) Australia's Unemployment Rate September
7:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(11:00 p.m. UTC) Gfk Group Consumer Confidence (Oct)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(11:30 p.m. UTC) Japan's National Consumer Price Index (YoY) (Sept)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin's Bounce in October Remains Elusive; Venture Capital Perspective on the Digital Economy
What is the outlook for bitcoin, crypto markets and venture capital investments? ""First Mover"" continued its live coverage of CoinDesk's Investing in Digital Enterprises and Assets Summit (I.D.E.A.S.) in New York City with ""Unchained"" podcast host Laura Shin, Pantera Capital Partner Lauren Stephanian and Two Sigma Ventures Principal Andy Kangpan.
JPMorgan Appoints Former Celsius Exec as Crypto Regulatory Policy Head, Bloomberg Reports: Aaron Iovine spent eight months earlier this year as head of policy and regulatory affairs for crypto lender Celsius Network.
Will Censorship Fork Ethereum?: Disagreement around how to handle sanctions on Ethereum may soon force the chain to split into two: one chain censored, one not.
French Lawmakers Approve New Boss for Finance Watchdog: Former bank lobbyist Marie-Anne Barbat-Layani’s hearings contained a warning for the likes of Binance and Crypto.com setting up in the budding crypto hub.
Brazil’s Largest Digital Lender Nubank to Roll Out Own Token to 70M Users in 2023: Named Nucoin, the new token will be used to offer discounts and perks to customers.
Aptos Token Plunges in Trading Debut: FTX, Coinbase and Binance were among the first exchanges to list the buzzy new layer 1 token."
216,1060,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/20/first-mover-asia-solanas-anatoly-yakovenko-thinks-his-phone-is-the-tool-for-a-mobile-web3-experience/,First Mover Asia: Solana’s Anatoly Yakovenko Thinks His Phone Is the Tool for a Mobile Web3 Experience,The Solana protocol faces a massive challenge in convincing people to use its phone to do things they can do with existing phones.,2022-10-20,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin was so flat that crypto analysts had little to discuss besides the largest cryptocurrency's ultra-low volatility.
Insights: Solana faces a major challenge in convincing people to use its mobile phone.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): 925.95 −0.7%
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,043 −0.4%
● Ether (ETH): $1,283 −0.0%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,665.78 −0.8%
● Gold: $1,630 per troy ounce +0.2%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 4.23% +0.1
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin (BTC) was holding steady around $19,000 – and analysts were remarking on just how much the notoriously volatile cryptocurrency's price has settled down. At least one technical indicator suggest that bitcoin might be undervalued, but the macroeconomic environment is still so sketchy that investors might not want to hop in just yet.
It's probably not a good sign that an asset considered one of the world's safest - the U.S. Treasury bond – is suddenly looking shaky. The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose to 4.2%, a level not seen since 2008. Liquidity for the triple-A-rated government bonds has ""deteriorated amidst weak demand and investor risk aversion,"" Bank of America analysts warned in a research report. ""The U.S. Treasury market is fragile and vulnerable to shock.""
Axie Infinity, the ""play-to-earn"" crypto gaming platform that's already a big loser in digital-asset markets this year, faces additional selling pressure as a big ""unlock"" looms for millions of the native AXS tokens. The concern is that early investors who have been restricted from selling because of vesting periods might now choose to dump the token.
Here are the biggest gainers and losers in the CoinDesk Market Index:
Solana's Phone Challenge
By Sam Reynolds
Do you really need a phone from Solana to experience a mobile version of web3? Anatoly Yakovenko seems to think so.
In June Solana announced that it is launching a Web3 phone, called the “Saga.” Yesterday at the TechCrunch Disrupt summit, Yakovenko was calling this an “opportunity” against Google and Apple, and a way for developers to bypass the “tax” these companies put on the sales via the app store.
“They’re built around a rent-seeking model where all the content is owned by the creator and you as a user rent it. When you buy a video from Amazon, you don’t actually own it; everyone realizes that you don’t own it,” TechCrunch quotes Yakovenko as saying. “I don’t know what’s going to have to change internally for them to give up the 30% tax on apps.”
Yakovenko’s solution is the Saga, which comes loaded with the Solana Mobile Stack (SMS) software development kit for Web3.
The SMS is, according to Solana, a “framework for Android allowing developers to create rich mobile experiences for wallets and apps on Solana.”
The operative word here is Android, the operating system that powers around 70% of the mobile phones in existence. Anything that Solana develops you could simply install on your existing Android phone, too.
The Saga phone isn’t all that proprietary in the first place. Solana didn’t specifically develop it; rather, it has contracted Osom, made up of former smartphone engineers from Google and another boutique smartphone maker called Essential, to rebrand one of their phones and call it the Saga. In turn, Osom used an original design manufacturer – which builds white-label phones and allows others to brand them – to manufacture the handset. This practice isn’t controversial but is is common as only a handful of companies have the capability to mass produce a smartphone.
In some ways, the failed blockchain phones of yesteryear were more proprietary than Solana’s Saga. HTC’s crypto-themed Exodus 1 phone allowed users to store their private crypto keys in a walled garden of the phone’s processor, called the Trust Zone, which is where other encryption keys and biometric data are stored. Samsung also does this now via its Knox encryption app and made it first available on the Galaxy S10 in 2019. HTC’s Exodus has faded into obscurity, and no market data is available on how many people use the Galaxy’s Knox function.
So for Solana, it's going to be a major challenge to convince people to buy its phone to do things you can already do on existing phones. There are already alternative app stores that don’t have the “30% tax” Yakovenko complains about – but they don’t have the library of apps.
Maybe the market for the phone is not builders and power users but rather those who want to be a part of the tribe, showing off their status symbol of inclusion.
8:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:00 a.m. UTC) EU Leaders Summit
9:10 p.m. HKT/SGT(1:10 p.m. UTC) President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York John C. Williams Speech
10:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(2:00 p.m. UTC) European Commission's Consumer Confidence
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Mango Markets to Start Returning Funds From $114M Exploit; UK Prime Minister Liz Truss Resigns
How will crypto markets react to the news that U.K. Prime Minister Liz Truss has abruptly resigned? Regulatory Reporter Amitoj Singh joins ""First Mover"" with the latest details. Plus, Bruno Ramos de Sousa of crypto asset manager Hashdex also joins the conversation. And, former FBI special agent and co-founder of Naxo, Chris Tarbell, discusses the latest with Mango and other recent decentralized finance (DeFi) exploits.
Crypto Gaming Token AXS Under Pressure as $215M Unlock Looms for Axie: Some 10 million of Axie’s AXS tokens owned by insiders and early investors will be unlocked soon, creating selling pressure. The AXS price has dropped following prior unlocking.
Coinbase Waives Fees for Converting Between USDC and Fiat, Eyeing Global Audience: The company hopes the move will encourage wider global adoption of the stablecoin it helped invent.
Stablecoins Could ‘Fundamentally Alter’ Banking System, Says US FDIC Chief: Acting FDIC head Martin Gruenberg argues that stablecoins need to mesh with regulated banking, as well as the Federal Reserve’s real-time payments system and any future U.S. central bank digital currency.
Binance Denies Allegations That It Intends to Use Users' Uniswap Tokens for Voting: The exchange denied using users’ token holding to vote on Uniswap governance.
Finance Can Never Be Fully Decentralized, Says UK Central Banker: Carolyn Wilkins, advising the Bank of England on financial stability, cited issues of transparency, concentration and unpredictable events.
Rarible 2 Introduces Major Updates to Popular NFT Marketplace: The platform will now function as an aggregated non-fungible token marketplace and establishes the RARI Foundation and new RARI governance token rewards.
Customers of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager Could Recover 72% of Their Funds if FTX Sale Is Approved: A judge still needs to approve a bankruptcy payout plan and the company could still scrap the deal in favor of a higher bid.
Hodlonaut Wins Norwegian Lawsuit Against Self-Styled 'Satoshi' Craig Wright: The pseudonymous website editor sued Wright in Norway."
217,1063,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/21/bitcoin-completes-second-full-week-below-20k-as-aptos-finds-market-bottom/,Bitcoin Completes Second Full Week Below $20K as Aptos Finds Market Bottom,"Bitcoin stayed unusually steady, with traditional markets in flux. The freshly launched aptos token staged a minor recovery after its initial flop.",2022-10-21,"Bitcoin notched its 14th consecutive day of trading below $20,000, but was holding remarkably steady despite ongoing turmoil in traditional markets.
Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was trading at around $19,100, little changed in the past 24 hours. The CoinDesk Market Index was up 0.5%. Ether (ETH) was up 1.4% to $1,310 as of press time.
The historically high-volatility crypto market remained unusually stable this week compared with traditional markets whipsawed by speculation over the Federal Reserve’s plans.
While the Fed is expected to raise interest rates by another 75 basis points (0.75 percentage point) during its next meeting on Nov. 2-3, the CME FedWatch tool currently shows that traders see roughly a 50/50 chance that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will raise rates by just 50 basis points in December. Officials say such a downshift might be warranted to prevent over-tightening.
Traditional markets’ turmoil also came after the political shakeup in the U.K. and an apparent move by the Japanese government to prop up the country’s ailing yen. Data showed that bitcoin’s 30-day price volatility is now almost identical to that of the U.K. currency.
Investors are unpacking what the right strategy is for bitcoin in this market – or even starting to focus on the long-term future, such as the Bitcoin blockchain’s next halving.
“Traditionally stable long-term investments like government bonds have seen prices fluctuating wildly, and overall losing value,"" JB Graftieaux, CEO of crypto exchange Bitstamp, told CoinDesk in an interview. “Investors looking at the opportunity to invest for the long term may well see a lot of value to be had in crypto assets.”
Alexandre Lores, director of blockchain market research at Quantum Economics, said he saw a significant number of institutional players build products in the past bear market cycle. And that might be happening again.
“I see institutional players and big venture capitals are really more able to time the market and buy cheap and sell expensive, so I think those things will trigger a really nice bull market,” Lores said in a phone interview with CoinDesk.
The debut of FTX- and A16z-backed new layer 1 blockchain Aptos caught the industry's attention this week – mainly because it was such a flop.
Aptos's APT token rose 4.5% to $7.40 on Friday, according to CoinMarketCap.
But the APT price is still well off the $9 where it started trading, as CoinDesk previously reported. Aptos also faced community criticism surrounding the amount of its native APT tokens held by private investors.
“Aptos had a bumpy start,” Adrian Fritz, research associate at 21Shares, told CoinDesk in an email.
Lyllah Ledesma contributed to this report."
218,1073,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/24/apple-refuses-to-exempt-nfts-from-app-stores-30-fee/,Apple Refuses to Exempt NFTs From App Store’s 30% Fee,The tech giant’s de facto ban on peer-to-peer NFT trading is likely here to stay.,2022-10-24,"Apple has rejected calls to exempt NFTs from its 30% “Apple Tax” on in-app purchases.
The tech giant codified its rules for iOS apps that handle non-fungible tokens on Monday with its first formal green light on offering in-app NFT minting, buying and selling – activities that it had never technically banned.
But the iPhone-maker’s de facto ban on NFT trading in apps is likely to remain. That’s because in-app NFT transactions must use Apple’s rails for in-app commerce, where Apple demands a 30% cut. Creators and marketplaces have long balked at the fees, choosing to limit in-app NFT functionality rather than lose a massive slice of revenue.
Just last month, The Information reported on how Apple’s fee policies are keeping marketplaces and creators away from its ecosystem and sometimes leading them to abandon NFT integrations outright.
Some game publishers are still cautious about web3 integrations. @Ubisoft has walked back on their initial bullish comments towards NFTs. @Apple seems to be sticking with its 30% tax on in-app #NFT purchases, despite likelihood that it will limit web3 adoption.
Because Apple’s “in-app purchase” service does not handle crypto payments, it would appear unlikely that apps that choose to offer NFT mints could accept crypto in return.
The Monday updates mark the first time Apple has provided specific rules for NFTs in its App Store guidelines.
The policy update also bans apps from offering exclusive access to NFT owners, or from linking their users to third-party sites where they might buy, sell and mint outside the Apple ecosystem – thus evading the fee derisively known as the “Apple Tax.”
“Apps may not use their own mechanisms to unlock content or functionality, such as license keys, augmented reality markers, QR codes, cryptocurrencies and cryptocurrency wallets, etc.,” reads section 3.1.1. of its App Store rules on Oct. 24 (the crypto mentions do not appear in an Oct. 22 version).
The updated wording does not fundamentally change Apple’s existing policies permitting in-app crypto trading on services such as Coinbase and FTX, which don’t have to pay 30% fees.
But it does add some more explicit teeth (emphasis added in bold):
Revised 3.1.5(iii): “Exchanges: Apps may facilitate transactions or transmissions of cryptocurrency on an approved exchange, provided they are offered only in countries or regions where the app has appropriate licensing and permissions to provide a cryptocurrency exchange.”
Read more: Apple Is Stifling the Metaverse, Tech Expert Says"
219,929,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/25/is-sbf-right-about-defi-regulation/,Is SBF Right About DeFi Regulation?,The FTX founder was roundly criticized for his crypto-regulatory proposals. But the so-called effective altruist is just being practical.,2022-10-25,"Last week, while speaking to Politico, Sam Bankman-Fried, the moptop billionaire founder of FTX and Alameda Research, said he has significantly revised his outlays for political campaign spending. He said his previously stated plan to spend upwards of $1 billion was a “dumb quote.”
Year to date, SBF has spent about $40 million to back Democrats and Republicans running election political campaigns coast to coast. That spending so far seems to have paid off, with CNBC reporting the majority of Bankman-Fried’s political recipients have pulled ahead in primary voting. But the former Wall Street quant thinks there’s a limit on what money can buy in general elections.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
“At some point, when you've given your message to voters, there's just not a whole lot more you can do,” Bankman-Fried said in the Politico interview. “You can spend more time on it and more messaging, more money, more anything else [but] you're not accomplishing anything more.”
See also: Is Sam Bankman-Fried a Modern-Day Robber Baron? | Opinion
Much has been written about Bankman-Fried and “effective altruism,” the political theory he subscribes to where people build wealth to give away either by making targeted donations now, or through the magic of compound interest, founding well-endowed charities later in life.
I guess he reckons his cash is better spent elsewhere than on a TV ad in Scranton, Pennsylvania. But where will his money and influence go? The trouble with effective altruism is that it’s a way of thinking that allows people to rationalize any of their actions.
Bankman-Fried’s political pragmatism was also on display in his recently published crypto-regulatory manifesto “Possible Digital Asset Industry Standards.” The blog, what SBF called “an industry norms manual,” outlined a path for crypto industry self-regulation. Somewhat surprisingly, SBF’s industry prescriptions were widely panned.
It covered seven areas where crypto might write rules for itself while it waits for clearer regulations from above. Some are dead simple: more disclosures around crypto advertising, regular audits for cash-backed stablecoins and a three-step checklist for crypto exchanges determining whether a token they want to list is a security.
Others show how crypto has rubbed off on SBF: He wants a standard where hackers are guaranteed 5% of the bounty if they exploit a protocol – assuming they give the rest back. (That could incentivize more ethical hacking, one of the ways code enthusiasts think the industry literally evolves.)
But SBF ran into trouble on social media when writing about decentralized finance (DeFi). He put forward a “suitability test” that would restrict access to crypto, sort of like qualified investor rules based on net worth and other factors in the traditional market. This flies in the face of crypto’s reigning open-source ethos: equal access for all.
He also initially proposed a licensing system for websites that interact with DeFi and other crypto protocols, and an automatic blacklist to keep sanctioned players from using centralized services. Adam Cochran of Synthetix and Yearn Finance called the rules “a moat that lets centralized entities control at least part of the flow into DeFi.”
In response to the draft, many noted that SBF seemed less concerned with the freedoms DeFi provides than the revenue centralized firms can milk from the industry. Industry gossip site Rekt, which wrote that he was “positioning himself as the U.S. government-approved gatekeeper” to crypto, and elsewhere was compared to a drug kingpin.
The most cogent arguments came from Bitcoin OG and ShapeShift founder Erik Vorhees, who noted the self-enforced rules and blacklists would only serve established exchanges that could afford to pay for compliance. “You can advocate Effective Altruism, or you can advocate banning 80 million innocent Iranians from the future of global finance,” Voorhees tweeted. “You can't do both.”
SBF took the criticism in stride, reworked parts of his draft and wrote a long Twitter thread addressing particular concerns from a number of critics. The heart of the debate, however, cannot be ironed over. SBF is a realist who sees regulation coming, and wants a hand in shaping it.
This will always offend the ideologically driven crypto advocates, who see crypto itself as a means of bettering the world. For his part, SBF has never fully embraced the crypto mindset – and he’s been on recording saying as much. For him, crypto is a means to an end: building wealth so those funds can be redirected. (Remember the DeFi infinite “ box” fiasco?)
See also: Crypto Is a Luxury Good | Opinion
Although there were still criticisms of the toned-down draft, SBF clarified that he was talking about centralized on-ramps into crypto, not self-executing protocols. “It is not making claims about what DeFi devs, smart contracts, and validators must do,” Bankman-Fried wrote. “It’s looking to eventually establish guidelines about how e.g., FTX’s platform – or Fidelity's – could interface with DeFi contracts.”
The debate over whether crypto should capitulate and erect barriers to entry in the name of protecting the uninformed is really only getting started. Concessions have and will continue to be made, but at the end of the day it doesn’t matter if you’re a pragmatist or ideologue as long as the code functions. (That’s part of, but not the entire reason, why BitBoy’s Alex Jones-style rant about SBF selling out to “suits … with deep pockets” is ridiculous.)
Responding to his critics, SBF noted the industry needs to keep peer-to-peer transfers and blockchain validation censorship resistant. This has little to do with whether websites or front-ends block users, or if DeFi applications follow U.S. Treasury Department sanctions. The question is, where do you want to put in the effort? Where does it really matter? Is crypto in the ""primaries"" or ""general?"""
220,430,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/25/crypto-game-axies-axs-token-gets-unlocked-just-as-short-squeeze-drives-up-price/,"Crypto Game Axie's AXS Tokens Get Unlocked, Recipients Send $5.7M Worth to Exchanges","Axie Infinity released the first batch of 10 million previously restricted tokens to early investors and insiders, blockchain data shows. Crypto asset management firm Arca already deposited freshly-claimed AXS tokens to the FTX exchange – a move that sometimes indicates an inclination to dump.",2022-10-25,"Axie Infinity, the play-to-earn crypto game that rose to sudden popularity last year, started releasing previously restricted AXS tokens to early investors and insiders as part of a massive $200 million unlocking event.
The unlock came with an unexpected bit of drama: a swift rally in crypto markets that wiped out some traders who had been betting that dumping by long-time holders might result in a price decline. The short squeeze drove up the price, possibly making the market conditions even more tempting for would-be dumpers.
Crypto traders have been monitoring the timing of the token vesting period, partly because of the possibility that some investors might choose to sell their holdings, which could theoretically drive down the price. Vesting refers to the period of time when certain investors and insiders have to wait before claiming their assets; the point is to ensure they are invested for the long-term and prevent immediate sales. Once the vesting period expires – and the tokens become unlocked – all's fair game.
Blockchain data shows that a wallet tagged as “Axie Infinity: Token Vesting” transferred some 785,334 AXS tokens ($6.6 million worth) to six recipients. The recipients were listed as Axie’s advisors and early investors in a private sale round in mid-2020, according to the site TokenUnlock.
Some 21.5 million AXS (worth $200 million) are about to be released in the upcoming days. About 10 million tokens unlocking are for early investors, advisors and the developer team, potentially creating selling pressure for the coin.
Digital asset management firm Arca, one of the institutional investors that purchased AXS during the private sale, received $4 million in AXS (437,500 tokens) to a wallet linked to the company. Then, it deposited all the tokens crypto exchange FTX, according to blockchain data from Etherscan and Nansen. Arca representatives didn't immediately reply to a request for comment.
Another early investor claimed $1.7 million in AXS (187,500 tokens), and soon moved the tokens to crypto exchange Binance, blockchain data shows.
Transferring coins to exchanges indicate that these investors may dump their holdings, pocketing an immense profit on their original investment. Investors who participated in the private sale bought AXS at 8 cents. Given that the crypto currently trades at around $9, they may pocket a 11,150% profit on their initial stake.
Crypto investment firms DeFiance Capital and Delphi Digital can claim $1.5 million (160,000 tokens) and $6.8 million (750,000 tokens), respectively, according to TokenUnlock. Blockchain data indicates that they are yet to obtain their share of tokens.
Owners of the wallet addresses have been identified by blockchain intelligence platform Nansen.
Crypto traders anticipated that AXS’s price would drop after the unlocking, similar to previous events.
Prior to the unlock, AXS was one of the worst-performing crypto assets by dropping 24% in a week, according to Messari. Traders positioned themselves for dropping further, building up shorts – bets designed toprofit from an asset’s price fall – and funding rates tilted overwhelmingly negative on most exchanges, according to data by Coinglass.
AXS, however, surged 7% in the last 24 hours amid a recent market-wide rebound, catching shorts by off-guard.
The whiplash liquidated $1.6 million short positions, the most in at least three months.
At press time, AXS is changing hands at $8.99, more than 90% down from its previous all-time high last year.
UPDATE (TK): Added detail about Arca depositing tokens to FTX."
221,1069,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/25/first-mover-asia-is-binance-becoming-too-dominant/,First Mover Asia: Is Binance Becoming Too Dominant?,"Binance pushes through around 53% of all crypto trades on spot and derivatives markets by trade count, and around 30% of the market’s value; Bitcoin remained comfortably above $19,000 in Monday trading.",2022-10-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin continued its weeks-long stay above $19K; most other major cryptos were slightly in the red.
Insights: Has Binance grown too big and powerful?
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin Holds Over $19K – Yet Again
By James Rubin
The economic future had a slightly rosier hue, but not enough to stir bitcoin and other major cryptos from their weeks-long roosts.
Bitcoin was recently trading above $19,300, a few ticks down from where it stood 24 hours earlier and well above the $19,000 threshold that’s served as a bottom support since mid September. Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,350, also slightly down from Sunday, same time, although as Oanda Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya noted that Ethereum has “gained more buzz” as the supply of ether has decreased.
Other major altcoins were mixed earlier Monday but tinted red later in the day as investors continued their recent risk-averse postures. LUNA and ATOM each recently fell about 4%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures the performance of a basket of cryptocurrencies, was down 1.1% over the past 24 hours.
Investors continue to eye U.S. Federal Reserve efforts to tame inflation. They sent stocks higher for a second consecutive day, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 climbed 1.3% and 1.2%, respectively, and the Nasdaq increased 0.8%.
The earnings season continues with Apple and Google parent Alphabet among the major tech companies scheduled to report. And on Tuesday the Conference Board will release October's consumer confidence index – showing a likely decline.
In an interview with CoinDesk, GSR Markets Global Head of Product Benoit Bosc said that any lessening of the current dose of steep interest rate hikes would spur a “knee-jerk reaction.” “It will be a sharp move higher for risk assets,” Bosc said.
Is Binance Becoming Too Dominant?
By Sam Reynolds
While FTX and Coinbase might have the mindshare, Binance’s $44 billion in daily volume is unchallenged by any other crypto exchange.
Binance pushes through around 53% of all crypto trades on spot and derivatives markets by trade count, and around 30% of the market’s value.
And Binance is so much more than just an exchange. It has an eponymous blockchain for which it controls most of the validators, a stablecoin to which it gives preference on its exchange (though it might not be a bad thing), a major governance entity on the Uniswap DAO and is a lender of last resort to the beleaguered crypto mining industry.
Is Binance becoming too dominant?
Certainly other exchanges have products or mandates that go beyond their core business. FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, despite commanding a smaller percentage of the daily trading volume than Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, spreads his influence far and wide with industry bailouts as the industry this year needed its version of the original J.P. Morgan. (The results have been “mixed,” as SBF said on David Rubenstein's show.)
Libertarian DNA
The crypto industry has libertarian DNA flowing through its veins. This is not a bad thing. Crypto becoming a trillion-dollar asset class has put lethargic regulators on notice that they must examine and embrace new technology instead of dismissing it and wishing it away through regulation. And there are alternative regulators to those based in the U.S. that have the competency to give institutional investors comfort (see: FTX’s endorsement of the Bahamas’ licensing regime). The establishment needed challenging.
But at the same time, monopolies tend to form in certain industries where there are economies of scale, such as the trading business. The pace of crypto mergers and acquisitions is expected to accelerate in the bear market.
Libertarians would argue that the state breaking up companies is a failure to grasp the “creative destruction” of market dynamism. Naturally, the market corrects for monopolies. Microsoft, for instance, is nowhere near the dominant force it was during the antitrust case of the late 1990s.
Within the Web2 world, regulators haven’t been very keen on antitrust lawsuits because of allegations of monopolistic behavior. Suits by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the states alleging that Meta, then Facebook, engaged in monopolistic practices have been thrown out. As a result, there have been calls to revamp antitrust laws, but it will take years for Congress to get to this.
Will the same happen in crypto? Will there be a challenger to Binance?
When Binance announced that it was killing access to three stablecoins that compete with its own, Circle wasn’t too upset. Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire tweeted that USDC would emerge a winner, as it would accelerate a shift away from USDT, which is a token-non-grata in the U.S.
“While optimizing dollar liquidity on the world’s largest exchange may carry benefits, the paradigm does raise potential market conduct questions,” Circle was quoted as saying.
So there are hints of antitrust ingredients, but because USDC, a competitor to BUSD, for now, remains a beneficiary, there’s not a case to be made – yet.
But what happens when Binance puts together all the separate entities it has and does something where all its competitors get unfairly locked out of a particular market?
At that point it might be relevant to revisit the question of whether Binance has become too dominant.
4:00 p.m.HKT/SGT(8:00 UTC) IFO Business Climate indicator for Germany (Oct)
HKT/SGT(13:00 UTC) United States Housing Price Index (MoM) (Aug)
HKT/SGT(14:00 UTC) United States Consumer Confidence (Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Veteran Trader Peter Brandt on Bitcoin: Is it Time to Buy?; State of NFT Markets
It's the start of Trading Week at CoinDesk, and ""First Mover"" kicked off special markets coverage with one of the most followed technical traders in the crypto space, Peter Brandt, founder of Factor Trading. Plus, Galaxy Digital's Salmaan Qadir discussed a new report on the state of the NFT marketplace, where creators have earned $1.8 billion in royalties to date.
MakerDAO Members Support Founder's 'Endgame' Plan to Break Up into MetaDAOs, $2.1B of Transfers: Community members will move ahead with founder Rune Christensen's ambitious plan to break up the protocol into MetaDAOs.
Robinhood's Crypto Customers Can Now Trade Aave and Tezos: The popular trading app now offers 19 crypto assets.
MakerDAO Community Approves Proposal to Place USDC in Coinbase's Custody Platform: Up to $1.6 billion in USD coin will be held with Coinbase Prime, where it will earn a 1.5% reward.
Court Refuses to Dismiss 'Insider-Trading' Case Against Former OpenSea Exec: Nate Chastain, who was head of product at the NFT marketplace, was indicted in June.
Ripple’s Director of Engineering Leaves Firm as XRP Turns 10: Nik Bougalis says he’s not joining another blockchain or Web3 company."
222,1071,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/25/celsius-once-solicited-donations-for-ukraine-heres-what-happened-next/,Celsius Once Solicited Donations for Ukraine. Here’s What Happened Next,"After Russia invaded Ukraine earlier this year, several digital-asset platforms rushed to publicize the address of Ukrainian government wallets for crypto donations. Celsius took a different path, setting up its own wallets to accept donations. But how much was donated?",2022-10-25,"Celsius Network executives, in the throes of a bankruptcy proceeding, are accused by critics of siphoning off money and ensuring that the C-suite gets a payout before creditors. But when it comes to Celsius’ fundraising campaign for Ukraine, did the funds – intended to help victims of war – make it to the right place?
Months after Celsius’ bankruptcy filing, critics on Twitter are reexamining the digital asset lender’s efforts to solicit donations on behalf of Ukraine. They argue there’s no evidence from on-chain data that the cryptocurrency collected was ever passed along.
However, after a look at the data, it appears Celsius didn’t receive a material amount of funds from its donation drive, and what little bitcoin it did get it sent on to Ukraine.
In the days following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February, crypto donations flowed rapidly into the war-torn country.
In less than two weeks, nearly $100 million had made its way to wallets set up by Ukraine’s Ministry of Digital Transformation. Major crypto exchanges including FTX and Binance provided directions for their users on how to donate to official wallets, and social media platforms worked hard to stamp out posts from scammers.
Celsius took a different approach. Instead of directing users to official Ukraine government-run wallets, it tweeted out addresses for wallets that it controlled, and solicited donations by way of those wallets.
To help #Ukraine, @CelsiusNetwork is publishing addresses where you can donate BTC and ETH in a safe and controlled way. $ETH:
0x8f9F9b4b48bFCAA5372878a3a679B44E8EB09063$BTC:
1. 1GT9VpbZP4CB5MdvTBYEHJ4mm56GNPUCZv
2. bc1q49aukmruj3edwtktsdgtkqgu87j9gsvaw5k2xc
“To help #Ukraine, @CelsiusNetwork is publishing addresses where you can donate BTC and ETH in a safe and controlled way,” the company tweeted.
According to Nansen’s wallet profiler tool, all ether (ETH) sent to that wallet was passed on to further wallets that Nansen says are controlled by Celsius.
A spokesperson for Ukraine’s Ministry of Digital Transformation said that she wasn’t aware of any ether donations received from Celsius.
It’s unknown whether Celsius made a cash donation via other means, such as a wire transfer, or if the cryptocurrency was passed along via an alternative not-easy-to-track crypto route or some other channel. But the matter has caused an outcry on Twitter among some crypto-focused users.
Celsius didn’t respond to a request for comment by CoinDesk sent to its press email.
Why exactly would @CelsiusNetwork need to create their own wallet addresses for donations to the Ukraine when public BTC & ETH addresses were posted on official UA channels? 🤔 pic.twitter.com/g4iQp6ckwQ
What happened to the money that Celsius Network raised for Ukraine? 🧐

This is PROOF that at least one family was ""helped"" by Alex Mashinsky#Celsius #CelsiusNetwork #CelsiusBankruptcy
w/@TiffanyFong_ pic.twitter.com/nZgW4UQBls
Tracking Celsius’ bitcoin (BTC) wallets is a bit more complex. A representative for Chainalysis says that the provided wallet is a services wallet, and it can’t be effectively traced.
It’s difficult to trace funds through a services wallet “because the way that services store and manage funds deposited by users inherently makes further tracing inaccurate,” Chainalysis said in a blog post on the topic. “Only the exchange itself knows which deposits and withdrawals are associated with specific customers, and that information is kept in the exchange’s order books, which aren’t visible on blockchains or in analysis tools.”
As the wallet has low volume, with less than 100 total transactions, some manual analysis of on-chain data is possible, though its accuracy comes with some conditions.
One of the listed wallets appears to have donated small amounts of bitcoin to the primary Ukraine bitcoin wallet. Hashed transaction data shows that a donation of $34.59 was made on Feb. 26, along with two more donations of $11.40 and $39.31.
However, these transactions occurred before the tweet from Celsius soliciting donations went live. They could be from Celsius users already donating to the cause.
After the tweet went up, on-chain data shows that a bitcoin transaction of approximately $53 went to the Ukraine wallet from Celsius’ second BTC wallet.
Given Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky’s Ukrainian heritage, one might assume that his intent was genuine when the company solicited donations via Twitter.
But many commenters on Crypto Twitter, ever the cynical chatter gallery, seemed to disagree, and by volume of donations, the campaign wasn’t much of a success anyway.
On-chain data shows that less than $100 in ether was sent to the wallet after the tweet went up on March 2 (as the wallet was used in Celsius' operations, most transactions involve internal transfers between Celsius' wallets).
All in all, this represented less than 1% of the incoming tokens to Celsius’ ERC-20 wallet, which is one of the wallets the company used to process its general transactions for business.
Critics of Celsius and Mashinsky have pointed to Mashinsky and other executives' eight-figure withdrawals from known Celsius wallets as proof that the executives sought to enrich themselves, or at least save their fortunes as the company’s financial situation was deteriorating.
But that may not be the case. Celsius didn’t receive a material amount of funds from its donation drive, and what little bitcoin it did get it sent on to Ukraine. The ether stayed in the wallet, but in the amount in question is the equivalent of a rounding error. The firm’s poor public image, however, and the choice to use its own wallets and not well-publicized Ukrainian wallets, encourages some conspiracy theory narratives."
223,449,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/26/crypto-markets-see-largest-short-liquidations-in-15-months-ether-leads-token-surge/,Crypto Markets See Largest Short Liquidations in 15 Months; Ether Leads Token Surge,"Crypto exchange FTX saw some $500 million in liquidations alone, a larger-than-usual figure.",2022-10-26,"Crypto markets had over $700 million in liquidations on short trades, or bets against price rises, reaching levels not seen since July 2021.
The liquidations may have contributed to a short squeeze because prices of several tokens jumped in the past 24 hours. Longs, or traders betting on higher prices, saw an additional $100 million in liquidations amid short-term price volatility.
Ether (ETH) jumped 10% to lead the surge among major cryptocurrencies, with Cardano's ADA, Solana's SOL and dogecoin (DOGE) adding some 9% and bitcoin (BTC) adding a tamer 4.3%. The overall market capitalization of the crypto market increased 4% regaining the $1 trillion mark, a level previously seen in August.
The largest amount of short liquidations since July last year (so far). https://t.co/INc50QkJgG pic.twitter.com/S0wvW85ouH
Liquidations occur when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader cannot meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).
Crypto exchange FTX recorded over $519 million in short liquidations, the most among its counterparts, followed by OKX at $71 million and Binance at $46 million. Some on Crypto Twitter remarked the move was unusual.
Bitcoin-tracked futures saw some $368 million in both long and short liquidations, followed by ether futures at $356 million. Among the other majors, ADA futures had $16 million in losses for traders.
Meanwhile, open interest, or the amount of outstanding derivative contracts that have not been settled, increased by 6.6%, implying traders opened more positions in anticipation of a further price surge.
The moves came amid a rise in broader equity markets. The tech-heavy Nasdaq ended Wednesday 2.25% higher and the S&P 500 added 1.63%. Asian markets rose on Thursday, with Japan’s Nikkei 225 increasing 0.90% and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng adding 0.63% since the open."
224,280,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/27/aptos-token-rebounds-after-upstart-blockchains-dismal-debut/,Aptos Token Rebounds After Upstart Blockchain's Dismal Debut,"The price of the newly launched APT token has nearly rallied back to where it started trading last week, before a swift crash.",2022-10-27,"Layer 1 blockchain Aptos' token has enjoyed a powerful rally following last week's inauspicious start, rebounding nearly to the price where it originally went live.
The APT token was trading at $9.17, up 36% compared with last week's low of $6.75, based on CoinGecko data. At that pace of recovery it's fast approaching the $12 price where it launched on multiple exchanges, based on data from Riyad Carey, a research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko. In the early hours following the Oct. 19 launch, the token was trading around $9 on the Coinbase, Huobi, FTX and Binance crypto exchanges.
“I certainly think it's possible that APT could rally above the open price, especially if crypto continues to outperform equities and if Aptos is able to generate some activity, whether in DeFi or NFTs,” Carey said.
The token quickly plunged below $7 on its first trading day and struggled, as community criticism over the number of APT tokens held by private investors and developers mounted, according to Carey.
There were also jabs related to the blockchain's processing speed, initially at four transactions per second (TPS) – a far cry from the 160,000 TPS capability touted by the Aptos team. (A quick spot check of an Aptos blockchain explorer showed the current rate at 12.5 TPS.)
According to a web statement from the Aptos protocol about its tokenomics, the project minted a total of 1 billion tokens, with some 510 million distributed to community members (around 51%), 190 million to core developers (around 19%) and the remaining to the Aptos Foundation (around 16%) and private investors (around 13%).
The Aptos Foundation’s allocations quickly raised a Twitter backlash, with critics questioning Aptos’ fairness and commitment to its community. The tokens held by private investors and current core contributors are subject to a “four-year lockup schedule” from the blockchain launch, according to Aptos.
Because of a relatively small circulating supply and a fairly small airdrop, there is “not a lot of built-in selling pressure” in Aptos, Carey said.
The rally has pushed APT’s market capitalization over $1 billion, ranking it among the 50 biggest cryptocurrencies overall, according to CoinGecko. The fully diluted valuation – including all tokens in existence, not just those that are circulating – is over $9 billion, according to the site.
Backed by FTX and the crypto-friendly venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), Aptos is a layer 1 blockchain led by ex-Meta employees who pioneered the company’s failed diem stablecoin. The blockchain relies on a Rust-based programming language named “Move"" – also the programming language for another upstart blockchain, Sui.
While Aptos had ""a bumpy start,"" observers' interest in Rust-based layer 1 blockchains, including Aptos, Sui and Radix, remains high, said Adrian Fritz, research associate at 21Shares."
225,308,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/27/crypto-exchange-ftx-is-working-on-creating-a-stablecoin-report/,Crypto Exchange FTX Is Working on Creating a Stablecoin: Report,FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried also ruled out a potential acquisition of popular trading app Robinhood.,2022-10-27,"Cryptocurrency exchange FTX is working on creating a stablecoin, CEO Sam Bankman-Fried told The Big Whale in an interview.
Bankman-Fried said in the interview ""it is very likely"" FTX will create a stablecoin, a crypto token whose value is tied to that of another asset. The exchange knows how to create one and is thinking about the best partner to work with, he said. He also hinted that an announcement will come soon.
However, in a follow-up tweet on Friday, Bankman-Fried noted that FTX is still determining a potential pathway.
""Eh to clarify: we are figuring out what we're doing on stablecoins; it could be anything or nothing, and could *or could not* involve partnerships, issuance, hula hoops, etc. (One of those is less likely than the others.),"" he tweeted.
FTX currently offers margin trading that allows customers to use a basket of U.S. dollar stablecoins as collateral. The basket includes trueUSD (TUSD), USD coin (USDC), Pax dollar (USDP), HUSD and Binance USD (BUSD). Rival exchange Binance started issuing Binance USD in 2019.
The rise of tether (USDT), which is the largest stablecoin and has a market cap of $68 billion, also provides a use-case of how stablecoins can thrive even under regulatory scrutiny. Tether is owned by iFinex, a Hong Kong holding company that also owns crypto exchange Bitfinex.
FTX has been spending during the current bear market, making several large acquisitions including a deal to buy crypto lending business BlockFi for up to $240 million. While Bankman-Fried bought a 7.6% stake in retail trading app Robinhood (HOOD) in May, FTX is not interested in acquiring the entire company, he said in the interview.
FTX did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment.
UPDATE (Oct. 27, 11:38 UTC): Adds interview detail in second paragraph.
UPDATE (Oct. 28, 14:11 UTC): Adds Twitter comment from Sam Bankman-Fried."
226,1072,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/28/institutional-investors-defi-cryptocurrency-market/,Novel Trading Opportunities in DeFi for TradFi,"The crypto industry can provide novel opportunities to generate value, but some of those avenues can't all be found in traditional finance.",2022-10-28,"Crypto is a $900 billion global market that institutional investors are sizing up.
Despite the inherent risks involved in participating in any nascent sphere, institutional financial players are going out of their way to discover how they can get involved in crypto. This includes telecom giants staking their coins and venture capital funds providing liquidity to decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols.
Tongtong Gong is the co-founder and COO at data infrastructure and analytics platform Amberdata. You can follow her on Twitter: @Gongt2. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Trading Week.
This is to say nothing of the new forms of programmatic trading, including crypto derivatives and arbitrage opportunities, used by retail and institutional traders alike.
There are novel opportunities for generating value in DeFi that are not feasible in TradFi. Research estimates that institutional DeFi could reach $1 trillion by 2025. By that point, we might not be separating TradFi and DeFi. It will all simply be Finance.
Read more from Trading Week: 4 Questions That Will Determine the Future of Retail Trading
The hardest barrier for traditional financial institutions to overcome to get involved in DeFi is understanding that the coded economics of each protocol rely on the laws of supply and demand, and so DeFi assets have a market price. And anywhere there’s trading, there’s a way to make money.
The current crop of crypto and DeFi platforms offer a few ways – familiar and unfamiliar to TradFi brokers – of making money.
Now that Ethereum has officially transitioned from the proof-of-work (PoW) consensus standard to proof-of-stake (PoS), ETH staking has become one of the easiest ways for institutional capital to come into the market. A JPMorgan report from this summer estimated the crypto staking industry could reach $40 billion by 2025.
Staking is the process by which a user locks up a portion of their assets for a length of time to help support the functions of the network. For doing so, they receive rewards in the form of additional assets.
Right now, however, the majority of validator rewards are going to people, firms and projects that have mastered the art of maximal extractable value (MEV). This is the process of using behind-the-scenes strategies to earn the greatest possible amount in fees from all the transactions that a validator will group into a block to be added to the chain.
Anyone or anything can be a so-called “block builder,” and practice MEV. In fact, deploying software created by Flashbots called MEV Boost makes it trivially easy to earn returns and is used by a majority of Ethereum validators. According to data provider Pintail, validators are generating a median return of 6.1% APR using Flashbot’s software.
Institutional financial players can also become liquidity providers (LPs) to decentralized exchanges (DEXs) and lending protocols. Most DEXs use the automated market maker (AMM) model of pricing tokens, so buyers and sellers always have a platform to transact.
LPs are incentivized to add tokens to AMM pools of each side of a token pair, and receive a percentage of transaction fees as a reward. This same system can also be applied to lending pools where LPs earn a percentage of interest by locking up liquidity for borrowers. Given the key role of liquidity in markets, protocols often incentivize network use by providing substantial yields.
Read more from Trading Week: 'A Metric for Fun': The FTX Leaderboard
While many of these trading strategies might seem strange to institutions not fully familiar with DeFi, there are still more familiar methods of making money: like traditional trading and arbitrager.
DEXs also enable many new forms of programmatic trading, including crypto derivatives and arbitrage opportunities. Just as in TradFi, crypto derivatives can take the form of futures, options and perpetual contracts but the value is derived from digital assets rather than stocks.
Arbitrage opportunities arise when the price of a token on one DEX is less than the price on other DEXs or centralized exchanges (CEXs). By relying on high-quality real-time data, institutional traders can quickly identify those opportunities to buy the asset where it is listed low and sell it on DEXs with higher listings.
Providing liquidity is simple, but it isn’t risk free. For example, it’s important to understand the concept of impermanent loss, which describes the ""unrealized opportunity"" on a DEX or DeFi platform when the token price changes relative to when it was deposited or withdrawn.
For example, let's say an LP deposits liquidity into an ETH-BTC pool at a time when 1 BTC equals 10 ETH. A month later, the value of ETH doubled while BTC hasn't changed. When this disparity occurs, arbitrage traders will jump at the opportunity to buy ETH from that pool and sell it on a DEX at a higher price thereby bringing the pool ratio and token prices back to market rate. This could hurt a depositor or benefit them, depending on which side of the trade they’re on.
Read more from Trading Week: Why Trading Is Essential for Crypto
(That said, during this period of high demand for ETH, transaction fees increase and so LPs may make up the impermanent loss through fees with enough exposure.)
Institutional traders are likely to know already that there’s no such thing as a free lunch. Despite the inherent risks involved with participating in any nascent sphere, institutional financial players are going out of their way to discover how they can get involved in crypto due to the novel opportunities for generating value in DeFi that are not feasible in TradFi."
227,1070,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/10/31/gamestop-nft-marketplace-goes-live-on-immutablex/,GameStop NFT Marketplace Goes Live on ImmutableX,The marketplace’s official release on the layer 2 blockchain platform is the result of a partnership that’s been months in the making.,2022-10-31,"GameStop’s non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace is officially live on blockchain platform ImmutableX, the video game retailer said Monday.
The partnership was initially announced in February and the GameStop NFT platform has been operating as a public beta since July. The official launch will allow marketplace users to access Web3 games currently being built on ImmutableX, including Gods Unchained, Guild of Guardians and Illuvium, as well as additional NFT gaming assets. The layer 2 scaling product can facilitate “100% gas-free and carbon-neutral minting and trading” on the GameStop NFT marketplace, according to its developers, making it an attractive solution for players new to Web3 gaming.
The two platforms have worked together on several initiatives since February, including launching a $100 million grant for builders and creators of Web3 gaming and integrating ImmutableX into the GameStop NFT Marketplace’s wallet to allow for easier management of digital assets.
GameStop has been working to build out its suite of Web3 integrations over the past year. In May, the retailer released its self-custodial crypto and NFT wallet. In July, it linked up with layer 2 scaling product Loopring to process transactions for its beta marketplace launch, bringing in $7.2 million in its opening week of sales. Most recently, the retailer announced an upcoming partnership with cryptocurrency exchange FTX.
Jonathan Reedy, vice president of strategic partnerships at ImmutableX, told CoinDesk that both firms aim to onboard new Web3 gamers by offering educational materials and introducing in-person and virtual gameplay down the line.
“ImmutableX hopes to create a gaming landscape that no longer thinks about blockchain gaming in terms of wallets, bridges, chains and rollups but instead, true digital ownership and fun sit at the heart of the gameplay experience,” said Reedy."
228,1068,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/10/31/blockchain-startup-chain-inks-web3-sponsorship-deal-with-miami-heat/,Blockchain Startup Chain Inks Web3 Sponsorship Deal With Miami Heat,Chain recently signed a similar partnership with the New England Patriots.,2022-10-31,"Blockchain infrastructure startup Chain has inked a partnership deal with the National Basketball League’s (NBA) Miami Heat that will put the company’s logo on players’ shooting shirts and introduce Web3 programming into the Miami stadium.
The deal, which will make Chain “the exclusive Web3 and blockchain infrastructure partner” of the franchise, is the Heat’s second major crypto sponsorship after its $135 million stadium naming rights contract signed with crypto exchange FTX in March 2021.
The collaboration comes just one week after Chain announced a similar partnership with the National Football League’s (NFL) New England Patriots.
Chain did not specify what type of Web3 activations the partnership will involve, the length of the partnership or the surrounding financial details.
“Our goal is to help these teams in tandem break through into Web3 and bridge their existing client and fan base into crypto,” Chain CEO Deepak Thapliyal told CoinDesk. “We are not evaluating what others are doing in this market climate, but what our partnerships can do with these sports teams to help bring our product exposure and implementation to a broader base.”
Chain specializes in merging Web2 brands and properties with Web3 technologies, most recently gaining buzz through its non-fungible token (NFT) tie-up with jewelry brand Tiffany and NFT blue chip CryptoPunks that netted $12 million in sales volume.
Read more: Jewelry Brand Tiffany and Co. Unveils $50K CryptoPunk Necklaces
While partnerships between crypto platforms and professional sports teams are no longer as in demand as they were at the peak of the bull run, deals of this nature have persisted. Crypto exchange Crypto.com reportedly cut back its marketing efforts earlier in October, though stadium marketing representatives told CoinDesk that interest in crypto partnerships remains strong."
229,533,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/10/31/steph-curry-files-curryverse-metaverse-trademark/,Steph Curry Files ‘Curryverse’ Metaverse Trademark,The NBA star may be taking his basketball talents to the metaverse with NFT services offered in “virtual environments.”,2022-10-31,"National Basketball League (NBA) star and non-fungible token (NFT) enthusiast Steph Curry has filed a trademark for the “Curryverse,” indicating plans to create interactive “virtual environments” to sell metaverse and NFTs.
The full trademark filing includes rights for “entertainment services, namely, personal and virtual and metaversal appearances” by Curry as well as “online gaming services in the nature of virtual worlds.”
The filing is the first known crypto-related trademark claimed by Curry, though the three point champion has been an ambassador for crypto exchange FTX since September 2021.
Curry is also no stranger to the NFT community, having purchased a Bored Ape Yacht Club NFT in August 2021. The basketball star’s collection also includes other digital collectibles, such as a membership pass to Web3 golf startup LinksDAO.
He released his first official NFT release in partnership with Under Armour in December 2021, grossing more than 2200 ETH (around $3.5 million) in sales volume, according to OpenSea.
Curry’s NBA team, the Golden State Warriors, has also embraced Web3 integrations with a series of partnerships to sell NFT collectibles as part of the larger “tokenized fandom” genre.
Read more: How the Golden State Warriors Gamified Fandom With NFTs"
230,65,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/02/divisions-in-sam-bankman-frieds-crypto-empire-blur-on-his-trading-titan-alamedas-balance-sheet/,Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried’s Crypto Empire Blur on His Trading Titan Alameda’s Balance Sheet,"Alameda had $14.6 billion of assets as of June 30, according to a private document CoinDesk reviewed. Much of it is the FTT token issued by FTX, another Bankman-Fried company.",2022-11-02,"Billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s cryptocurrency empire is officially broken into two main parts: FTX (his exchange) and Alameda Research (his trading firm), both giants in their respective industries.
But even though they are two separate businesses, the division breaks down in a key place: on Alameda’s balance sheet, according to a private financial document reviewed by CoinDesk. (It is conceivable the document represents just part of Alameda.)
That balance sheet is full of FTX – specifically, the FTT token issued by the exchange that grants holders a discount on trading fees on its marketplace. While there is nothing per se untoward or wrong about that, it shows Bankman-Fried’s trading giant Alameda rests on a foundation largely made up of a coin that a sister company invented, not an independent asset like a fiat currency or another crypto. The situation adds to evidence that the ties between FTX and Alameda are unusually close.
Read the latest: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books: Source
The financials make concrete what industry-watchers already suspect: Alameda is big. As of June 30, the company’s assets amounted to $14.6 billion. Its single biggest asset: $3.66 billion of “unlocked FTT.” The third-largest entry on the assets side of the accounting ledger? A $2.16 billion pile of “FTT collateral.”
There are more FTX tokens among its $8 billion of liabilities: $292 million of “locked FTT.” (The liabilities are dominated by $7.4 billion of loans.)
“It’s fascinating to see that the majority of the net equity in the Alameda business is actually FTX’s own centrally controlled and printed-out-of-thin-air token,” said Cory Klippsten, CEO of investment platform Swan Bitcoin, who is known for his critical views of altcoins, which refer to cryptocurrencies other than bitcoin (BTC).
Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison declined to comment. FTX didn't respond to a request for comment.
Other significant assets on the balance sheet include $3.37 billion of “crypto held” and large amounts of the Solana blockchain’s native token: $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.” Bankman-Fried was an early investor in Solana. Other tokens mentioned by name are SRM (the token from the Serum decentralized exchange Bankman-Fried co-founded), MAPS, OXY and FIDA. There is also $134 million of cash and equivalents and a $2 billion “investment in equity securities.”
Read the latest: Bitcoin Falls Below $17K, First Time in 23 Months, as Binance Said to Waver on FTX Deal
Also, token values may be low. In a footnote, Alameda says “locked tokens conservatively treated at 50% of fair value marked to FTX/USD order book.”
Owners of the FTT token get discounts on FTX trading fees, increased commissions on referrals and earn rewards. The value of FTT is maintained by FTX’s rolling program of buying back and burning tokens, a process that eats up a third of the exchange’s trading commissions, which will continue until half of all tokens are burned, according to FTX.
There are about 197 million FTT tokens worth $5.1 billion in circulation, according to FTX’s website.
Tracy Wang and Oliver Knight contributed reporting to this story.
UPDATE (Nov. 2, 2022, 15:00 UTC): Adds that Alameda's CEO declined to comment, and a comment from Cory Klippsten."
231,1074,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/02/first-mover-asia-ripples-apac-policy-chief-sees-hopeful-shift-in-hong-kong-crypto-statement-dogecoin-soars-again/,First Mover Asia: Ripple's APAC Policy Chief Sees Hopeful Shift in Hong Kong Crypto Statement; Dogecoin Soars Again,But Rahul Advani told CoinDesk the industry needs more details about the city’s plans.,2022-11-02,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: DOGE was soaring again, UNI jumped and bitcoin and ether traded flat a day before the Fed's latest, likely 75 basis point, rate hike.
Insights: Ripple's policy director for the Asia Pacific rim region noted a shift in Hong Kong's recent policy statement, but said the industry needs more details.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
DOGE Continues to Climb; Bitcoin Trades Flat
By James Rubin
The DOGE were on the loose again in Tuesday trading, while bitcoin and ether remained more tightly leashed.
The popular meme coin was recently trading over 13 cents, a more than 12% gain for the past 24 hours and its highest point since late April. DOGE has been soaring since the middle of last week as billionaire entrepreneur and dogecoin enthusiast Elon Musk neared the close of his $44 billion purchase of social media platform Twitter.
BTC and ETH were recently changing hands sideways with the largest cryptocurrency in market value down a smidgen and ether in the green. Bitcoin held its place snuggling above the $20,000 threshold it assumed more than a week ago amid hopeful signs the U.S. central bank will scale back its current diet of hefty interest rate hikes by early next year, if not sooner. The Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, will likely announce a fourth consecutive 75 basis point increase on Wednesday.
Yet recent indicators suggest that inflation will soon be waning meaningfully without throwing the economy into a harsh recession. As CoinDesk analyst Glenn Williams wrote, investors hoping for a more dovish turn in monetary policy may look optimistically at a percentage decline in the M2 money supply growth from a year ago. The parabolic increase in U.S. money supply during 2020 is largely behind the current inflationary environment. The reduced supply growth could be evidence that recent Federal Reserve measures are working.
DOGE was not the only altcoin to surge as UNI recently rose 3.3%. Decentralized exchange (DEX) Uniswap’s native token was up more than 5.1% at one point and has climbed more than 10% over the past week. The gains have followed Uniswap's closing of a $165 million Series B funding round earlier in October.
Meanwhile, equity markets closed down slightly with the tech heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 dropping 0.8% and 0.4%, respectively.
Noting an unexpected increase in job openings in the latest U.S. JOLTs (Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey) data, Edward Moya, senior market analyst at foreign exchange market maker Oanda, wrote pessimistically that ""momentum was building on expectations for the Fed to downshift their tightening pace in December, but now that call seems like it may have been premature. Rates might need to stay higher for longer if the labor market is still healthy and inflation ends up being stickier than markets are initially thinking.""
Moya added: ""It seems like Wall Street might have to wait until the New Year for the Fed to downshift, which means Bitcoin could be vulnerable to finish the week lower.""
What Does Hong Kong's Policy Statement Really Mean?
By Sam Reynolds
Hong Kong may be “ready to engage” with the digital assets industry to provide retail investors with a “suitable degree of access to virtual assets,” but the industry still needs to see more details of what this plan entails, says Ripple’s Rahul Advani, the firm’s policy director for APAC.
“The tone has changed slightly,” Advani told CoinDesk.
Previously, Hong Kong authorities had been adamant that investment in virtual assets was only to be the domain of professional (accredited) investors. Sam Bankman-Fried cited this as one of the reasons, alongside COVID-19 restrictions, why FTX moved its headquarters from Hong Kong to the Bahamas last year.
“But I think the statement was very broad,” Advani continued. “What we’re expecting to see next is a consultation from the [Securities and Futures Commission], which will have more specifics on what that permission looks like.”
Advani believes that the “devil is in the details.” There could be all sorts of clauses the SFC throws in, like suitability tests or other types of restrictions on how much you can trade and trading venues such as what Singapore has.
In Singapore, the government is not anti-retail crypto, but it has been “very clear that not all retail investors should be investing in crypto assets,” Advani said, pointing to a recent consultation from the Monetary Authority of Singapore, which advocates for suitability tests for investors and restrictions on borrowing to purchase crypto.
“Singapore is ensuring that there are safeguards in place,” he said. “They’ve said that they aren’t going to ban retail participation in crypto because that’s going to move the market offshore. And it's not solving risks.”
Hong Kong vs. Singapore?
While some have argued that the crown for Asia’s crypto hub is a zero-sum, winner-take-all, game. Advani doesn’t agree.
“I don't think it's a question of Singapore versus Hong Kong. I think the market is big enough that both Singapore and Hong Kong can coexist,” he said.
Retail crypto’s rise in Hong Kong doesn’t come at a cost to Singapore. But the question remains, what will that rise look like? For now, everyone is in wait-and-see mode.
“It’s a positive statement that we’ve seen from the Hong Kong government ... We’re waiting to see that consultation.”
8:15 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:15 UTC) United States ADP Employment Change (Oct.)
2:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(18:00 UTC) United States Fed's Monetary Policy Statement
6:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(22:00 UTC) Australia S&P Global Services PMI (Oct.)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Dogecoin Trumps All Other Major Cryptos in October; Binance Exec on Future of Twitter Under Elon Musk:
Binance Chief Strategy Officer Patrick Hillmann joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the crypto exchange's involvement in Twitter under the direction of Elon Musk. Plus, dogecoin (DOGE) was the top performer in October among the 150 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI). Digital asset analysts attributed the big jump in DOGE to Musk’s $44 billion takeover of Twitter – ostensibly tied to speculation that the deal might somehow, eventually, bring value or utility to the Dogecoin blockchain and its eponymous cryptocurrency.
Early MakerDAO Developer and Stablecoin Pioneer Found Dead in Puerto Rico: A 29-year-old man's body was pulled from the currents Friday morning off a beach in the Condado area of San Juan, El Nuevo Dia reported, citing local police.
South African Supermarket Chain Pick n Pay Now Accepts Bitcoin Payments, South Africa's The Times Reports: The retailer is taking payments from any Lightning Network-enabled wallet.
Crypto Regulation Will Be a Priority for G-20 Under India Presidency, Official Says: India is set to take over the presidency of the intergovernmental group for one year starting in December.
Elon Musk Tweet Sparks Flurry of Twitter-Themed Dogecoin Tokens: The price of some 67 tokens dropped more than 90% following their issuance, on-chain data shows.
Dollar Reversal Could Bring Inflationary Pressure, Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers Warns: Speculation is mounting over when the Federal Reserve might pivot dovish. But economists, including Summers, warn any such move might lead to weakness in the U.S. dollar versus other global currencies, in turn driving up prices for imports."
232,1082,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/02/crypto-exchange-bitmex-cuts-staff-as-it-pivots-back-to-derivatives-strategy/,Crypto Exchange BitMEX Cuts Staff as It Pivots Back to Derivatives Strategy,The layoffs come one week after CEO Alexander Hoeptner left the company.,2022-11-02,"Cryptocurrency exchange BitMEX has reduced its workforce as it pivots back to focusing on derivatives trading, a spokesperson told CoinDesk.
The extent of the layoffs was not revealed. A BitMEX spokesperson dismissed a report suggesting that 30% of its staff had been let go.
The changes follow last week's departure of CEO Alexander Hoeptner, who joined in late 2020. Hoeptner replaced Arthur Hayes, who was sentenced to a 12-month probation order after violating the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) during his tenure at the exchange. Shortly after joining, Hoeptner outlined a strategy to see BitMEX become ""more than a derivatives exchange"" with a focus on spot trading, custody and brokerage.
""We are going to refocus on liquidity, latencies and a vibrant derivatives community including BMEX Token trading,"" BitMEX said in a statement shared with CoinDesk. ""As an undesirable consequence, we had to make changes to our workforce. Our top priority is to make sure all employees who will be impacted have the support they require.""
BitMEX, based in the Seychelles, was the largest crypto derivatives exchange in 2018 and 2019 before losing market share to FTX, Binance and ByBit. It created the perpetual swap contract, a form of futures contract without expiry that is now used across the crypto industry.
UPDATE (Nov. 2, 09:38 UTC): Adds details of BitMEX's Beyond Derivatives strategy."
233,28,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/03/first-mover-americas-metas-instagram-move-boosts-web3-tokens/,First Mover Americas: Meta’s Instagram Move Boosts Web3 Tokens,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 3, 2022.",2022-11-03,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Meta Platforms, parent of Facebook and Instagram, said it will use decentralized storage product Arweave to archive creators' digital collectibles. That prompted a 60% price surge in AR, the Web3 platform’s native token, boosting AR's market cap to $838 million and making it the third-largest Web3 token worldwide. The effect rippled through the metaverse: The tokens of Web3 platforms Filecoin and Storj gained 10% and 25%, respectively.
Crypto exchange Huobi Global, one of the largest crypto platforms in Asia, appeared to confirm it plans to move to the Caribbean by retweeting a post by Justin Sun, founder of the Tron blockchain network and an adviser to the company. The exchange, which was founded in China in 2013, is now based in the Seychelles.
On paper, billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s cryptocurrency empire is split into two parts: FTX, his exchange, and Alameda Research, his trading firm – both giants in their respective industries. However, a private financial document shows Alameda’s balance sheet includes billions of dollars in FTT, the native token of FTX, blurring the line between the two companies.
Adoption of layer 2 blockchains, led by Ethereum, has recently soared, with the number of transactions processed by these platforms reaching a record high of 5.78 million.
The data from Orbiter.Finance, shown above, measures the number of transactions processed by layer 2 networks over the past 12 months.
Networks like Arbitrum and Optimism promise fast, scalable and secure networks, as well as a cheaper option, compared with Ethereum's main network.
– Omkar Godbole
Digital Asset Platform Bakkt to Buy Apex Crypto for up to $200M
Crypto Exchange Coinbase's Chief Product Officer Steps Down Amid Restructuring
BTC Markets Entering a New Phase in Potential Accumulation Season
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements."
234,161,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/03/did-sponsoring-stadiums-bring-new-crypto-traders-or-tourists/,"Did Sponsoring Stadiums Bring New Crypto Traders, or Tourists?","By some metrics, Crypto.com and FTX’s stadium sponsorship campaigns were a remarkable success. Whether they succeeded in onboarding a new generation of crypto traders remains to be seen.",2022-11-03,"Last November, at the height of the bull market, Crypto.com announced it had obtained the naming rights to the stadium that houses the National Basketball Association (NBA) team Los Angeles Lakers, and on Christmas Day 2021, the venue was renamed the Crypto.com arena.
Months prior, FTX won the rights to rename the American Airlines Arena, which houses the NBA's Miami Heat, to the FTX Arena.
But the question remains: Throughout the prolonged crypto winter, are the investments in stadium branding proving to be worthwhile? Are they leading to a new cohort of retail users?
While Los Angeles and Miami are known for their temperate climates throughout the year, the crypto market is anything but right now.
“During a bear market, retail users lose interest in crypto, and no amount of sponsorship can help change this view,” said CoinGecko co-founder and COO Bobby Ong.
Data provided by CryptoQuant shows that Crypto.com has struggled to maintain the spike in activity that the initial sponsorship announcement brought.
At the beginning of November 2021, there were just over 2,000 active addresses for Crypto.com’s Cronos (CRO), its exchange token. Tracking the number of CRO holders is important as it's a good proxy for the number of engaged traders, not those only putting in a few dollars, as exchange token holders get fee discounts on trades.
In the days following the sponsorship announcement, the number of active addresses spiked to almost 10,000.
“The number of active addresses for CRO increased 4.5x after the announcement,” Burak Tamac, a senior researcher at CryptoQuant, told CoinDesk. “There was also a transaction count increase that coincided with the number of active addresses.”
But following that, the number of active addresses sank back to Earth.
News that the exchange was sponsoring the Formula 1, UEFA Champions League, and World Cup didn’t boost active user numbers the same way the L.A. stadium sponsorship did, which led the exchange to look to start canceling its partnerships.
A report from the trade publication Ad Age says that the exchange continues to look for exits from its sponsorship deals while it cuts its headcount.
When asked about the data behind its sponsorship decision, Crypto.com provided a statement via email from Steven Kalifowitz, the firm’s chief marketing officer: “We have more than 50 million users worldwide, and we will continue to invest in our sports partnerships as they play a pivotal role in helping to accelerate the world's adoption of cryptocurrency.""
Some might say that the bump in CRO’s active users is coincidental, as it coincides with 2020’s bull market hysteria.
But Tamac points to FTX’s sponsorship of the Miami Heat Arena and the subsequent jump in FTT token active addresses when the deal was announced in April 2021 — in what was an otherwise boring crypto market, as month-on-month bitcoin only gained about 2% — as proof of a trend.
FTX didn’t respond to a request for comment.
CryptoQuant’s Tamac said it would be tough to get data on specific cohorts of users just by looking at on-chain data.
At the time, crypto trading apps were making their way into the top charts of the Apple App Store, alongside trading platforms like Robinhood and Webull. This was the meme stock era, after all, and the action was on mobile.
Data from mobile app insights firm Data.ai (formerly App Annie) shows that Crypto.com’s app didn’t have sustained interest.
Data.ai’s Head of Insights Lexi Sydow pointed to a 122% month-over-month increase in mobile app downloads in October 2021 and another 67% month-over-month increase in November 2021 as proof that the sponsorship deal “caught the attention of consumers.”
But, like the active user count of the CRO and FTT tokens, both quickly fell.
“Crypto sports sponsorships are useful to gain the attention of retail users during a bull market, when crypto prices are rising,” adds CoinGecko’s Ong.
“Crypto exchanges were in a rush to ink such brand sponsorships to be top of mind and the first brand that retail users sign up when searching for a crypto exchange.”
Binance, by far, is the world’s largest crypto exchange, dominating its rivals by a large margin. Its CEO, Changpeng ‘CZ’ Zhao, is worth nearly $100 billion (excluding crypto holdings), and the company is known to be cash rich.
So the exchange might be a perfect candidate for high-profile sponsorships, but CZ has said no.
While Binance has sponsored some Brazillian soccer teams and the African Cup of Nations tournament, both are fairly low profile in comparison to what others have sponsored with the $2.4 billion price tag.
“It was not easy saying no to Super Bowl ads, stadium naming rights, and large sponsor deals a few months ago, but we did,” CZ tweeted in June, at the depths of this year’s crypto crash, highlighting that Binance was hiring for 2,000 positions.
If there’s any consolation for Crypto.com, it might be found in its mobile app ranking.
While the crypto winter has forced most crypto apps from the top-ranking lists of app stores, Crypto.com’s app ranks as the #47 most-downloaded mobile phone app for September 2022, while Binance is #61 (just behind TradFi’s SoFi, which also sponsored a stadium).
All this as Binance pushes around $5 billion in spot volume per day, according to CoinGecko, while Crypto.com does $233 million.
Perhaps stadium sponsorship does have an effect, though ever so small."
235,1080,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/03/crypto-exchange-huobi-tweets-plan-to-move-to-caribbean/,Crypto Exchange Huobi Tweets Plan to Move to Caribbean,"Dominica, Panama and the Bahamas are the frontrunners, according to Justin Sun, who advises the company.",2022-11-03,"Crypto exchange Huobi Global, one of the largest cryptocurrency platforms in Asia, appeared to confirm that it plans to move to the Caribbean by retweeting a post by Justin Sun, founder of the Tron blockchain network and an adviser to the company.
🏖️ https://t.co/CXBn7STIvH
The exchange, founded in China in 2013, is currently based in the Seychelles. Last month, it agreed to be bought by the M&A fund of Hong Kong-based investment company About Capital Management for an undisclosed amount.
Sun, who stepped down as the Tron's CEO to become Grenada's ambassador to the World Trade Organization last year, said in an interview with the Financial Times earlier this week that the Caribbean's ""super-friendly"" crypto stance, use of English and common law-based legal systems, made it an attractive region to set up shop. He added that Dominica, Panama and the Bahamas were the frontrunners.
Dominica may be the most likely destination should Sun's influence come to bear. Last month, Tron entered into an agreement with the Dominican government to issue a national fan token to promote the island's heritage and tourism.
The move would mark the latest instance of a crypto exchange migrating from Asia to the Caribbean in search of a more helpful regulatory environment. Last year FTX moved its headquarters from Hong Kong to the Bahamas.
Read more: Crypto Exchange Huobi Global to be Acquired by About Capital"
236,1079,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/03/web3-gaming-developer-mythical-games-loses-3-top-executives/,Web3 Game Developer Mythical Games Loses 3 Top Executives,"SVP Chris Ko, COO Matt Nutt and co-founder Rudy Koch announced their departures on Wednesday. Each hinted at new ventures.",2022-11-03,"Three top executives at Web3 game developer Mythical Games announced their departures from the company on Wednesday.
Senior Vice President Chris Ko, Chief Operating Officer and head of games Matt Nutt and co-founder Rudy Koch each posted about their exits on LinkedIn, sharing details about upcoming opportunities.
Koch, who had worked at the gaming giant for four years, wrote that he’s “not finished with Web3” and has a “new venture cooking.”
Ko and Nutt, both veterans of gaming company Electronic Arts, each wrote that they’re in “stealth mode” on a new project and will share more information next week. It’s not immediately clear if the former executives are working on related projects.
“We are grateful to them for their leadership and the significant contributions they’ve made in helping the company get to this point, and wish them the best in the future,” said a representative from Mythical.
The successful Web3 game developer has moved away from traditional corporate structures in recent months, favoring a more decentralized approach. In October, the company created the Mythical Foundation in an effort to decentralize the gaming ecosystem. The move also introduced the Mythos DAO and related governance token running on an Ethereum-adjacent chain the company announced in August.
The departures also follow a trend of top-level exits from crypto companies coined “the great resignation.” In August, Michael Saylor scaled back his role as CEO of MicroStrategy to serve as executive chairman. In September, Kraken CEO Jesse Powell left the exchange he helped establish. A week later, Brett Harrison stepped down as president of brokerage platform FTX.US."
237,529,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/03/venture-capital-firm-paradigm-to-host-crypto-tech-event-on-capitol-hill/,Venture Capital Firm Paradigm to Host Crypto Tech Event for US Policymakers,The Hands On Web3 affair aims to give U.S. policymakers a hands-on demonstration of the crypto technologies they could regulate.,2022-11-03,"Crypto-focused investment firm Paradigm will host its first public event in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 16, to help members of the U.S. Congress and other policymakers better understand the Web3 technologies they’re attempting to regulate.
Hands On Web3 will take place about a week after the U.S. midterm elections, where 435 House seats and 35 Senate seats are up for a vote, potentially changing the landscape of Congress and crypto regulation efforts.
“I frequently liken it to asking someone to design an umbrella when they've never even seen the rain,” Paradigm Chief Legal Officer Katie Biber told CoinDesk in an interview. “What we're trying to do is change that – to experience crypto is to understand crypto.”
To be held in Washington, D.C.'s Union Station, Hands On Web3 will be tailored toward policymakers, academics and the media. The event will include demonstrations from non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace OpenSea, crypto exchange FTX and crypto music startup Royal, among others. The demos will include ways for participants to get hands-on experience with crypto transactions like setting up a wallet or joining a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO).
“There are some ethical restrictions with some offices that can't own crypto,” said Paradigm U.S. Policy Manager John Heinemann, who previously worked for the House Committee on Financial Services. “That's why every booth is bringing their own device so people can play with it without running afoul of any ethics rules.”
The event will also include “pop-up policy discussions” with former Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Georgetown University School of Law's Chris Brummer, Uniswap Labs Chief Operating Officer Mary-Catherine Lader and Rep. Ritchie Torres (D-N.Y.). The special guests will appear at the event’s reception and will each briefly share their views on topics such as decentralized finance or recent developments with DAO regulations, said Biber, whose work history includes serving as general counsel for digital assets firm Anchorage and the 2012 presidential campaign for Mitt Romney.
“Our internal mantra for this event is that it’s all tech, no politics,"" explained Biber. “This is not an opportunity for lobbying or for cramming legislative ideas down the throats of attendees. It’s purely to allow them to see the technology and the exciting implications that we feel like it has for the world.”
Read more: Previewing Next Week's US Midterm Election
UPDATE (17:23 UTC): Updates quote in final paragraph to correct wording."
238,632,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/04/aptos-ceo-defends-fair-tokenomics-that-prompted-community-backlash/,Aptos CEO Defends 'Fair' Tokenomics That Prompted Community Backlash,Aptos CEO Mo Shaikh told CoinDesk the token distribution is much fairer than at other projects.,2022-11-04,"The CEO of Aptos, the layer 1 blockchain that went live last month, has defended the project's ""fair"" token allocation following a wave of criticism from its community.
Aptos airdropped its APT token to early network testers in October, but concerns surfaced immediately over the distribution of tokens when core contributors, investors and the Aptos Foundation received almost half the 1 billion tokens issued. This led to concerns that investors and the foundation could potentially liquidate their tokens, which would trigger a negative market reaction.
""Our goal when we designed the tokenomics was to create something that fairly represents the community,"" Aptos CEO Mo Shaikh told CoinDesk in an interview. ""If you look at our tokenomics distribution, we have among the lowest across any blockchain for investors. ... It's among the most fair that we have seen even compared to other projects.""
Ethereum allocated just 9.9% of its supply to the founding team and another 9.9% to the Ethereum Foundation.
Aptos, which is made up of former Meta employees who previously worked on the diem stablecoin project, raised $200 million in March followed by a $150 million Series A round in July, with participation from the likes of FTX Ventures and Jump Crypto.
The Aptos token (APT) is currently trading at $7.39 with a market cap just shy of $1 billion.
""There are also pretty strong lockup periods. If someone wants to dig a bit deeper they would realize that investors can't dump on retail, they are totally blocked from doing that,"" Shaikh said. ""We've put a lot of constraints on investors that no one has ever done before.""
Last month's launch of the Aptos blockchain was chaotic. Speculation mounted over whether the airdrop was exploited by attackers who reportedly created numerous Aptos wallets to capitalize on a lack of security barriers and receive a disproportionate share of an airdrop in what's known as a Sybil attack.
""It's a difficult challenge to fairly reward those who have contributed to the ecosystem,"" said Chief Technology Officer Avery Ching. ""What you're trying to do is identify unique individuals, and that is a very challenging problem in general. We've taken a tremendous amount of care to ensure that every recipient was unique, and on-chain specifically we made sure that every airdrop went to a specific address to ensure that you couldn't double collect.""
There was also intense scrutiny around the capacity and scalability of the blockchain. Aptos reportedly handled fewer than seven transactions a second, despite touting 100,000/second during the testing phase.
""In our testnets, many folks in our community verified the traffic that was going through our network – which was in the thousands per second,"" Ching said. ""That was inferior hardware to what we're using today on mainnet. We're really looking to push our mainnet to its limits.""
""We are working on exposing more metrics to the public. We had a spike of more than 2,500 TPS.""
The code underlying the Aptos blockchain is written with Move, a Rust-based programming language that is also set to be used by the forthcoming Sui blockchain. Move was originally developed at Meta to be used to power the Diem blockchain.
""Move in many ways is inspired by Rust,"" Ching said. ""The difference here is that Move is built for smart contract language development. We found that this would be easier for developers to build compared to languages like Solidity.""
But there are concerns over blockchain safety when using a relatively new programming language, especially in light of the recent surge in crypto-related hacks and exploits that has seen billions of dollars stolen annually.
""We took an extreme amount of care before launch. What we did was break it down into different areas of potential vulnerabilities, working with auditors and work with other projects in the space to identify the riskiest areas. Move is safe from a verified perspective, but we've taken an even more paranoid approach to make sure things are safe,"" Ching said.
See also: Aptos Token Rebounds After Upstart Blockchain's Dismal Debut
UPDATE (Nov. 4, 11:22 UTC) : Adds CEO quote before Technical Constraints heading, background on airdrop, blockchain performance, concerns over safety after the heading."
239,194,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/04/first-mover-asia-alameda-research-ftx-are-bound-to-each-other-bitcoin-trades-sidways-dogecoin-plunges-late-as-twitter-halts-work-on-crypto-wallet/,"First Mover Asia: Alameda Research, FTX Are Bound to Each Other; Bitcoin Trades Sideways, Dogecoin Plunges Late as Twitter Halts Work on Crypto Wallet",A recent Alameda document showed the biggest asset on the organization's balance sheet was FTX’s FTT token.,2022-11-04,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Macroeconomic uncertainty reigns but bitcoin continued to hold tight comfortably above $20K. DOGE plunged late on Thursday after news that Twitter was halting work on its crypto wallet project.
Insights: Alamedia Research and crypto exchange FTX are bound together, a recent Alameda document underlines.
Bitcoin Sails Along; DOGE Plummets Late
By James Rubin
The global economy saw more stormy weather on Thursday as the U.S. Labor Department announced a small dip in weekly jobless claims just a few hours after the Bank of England boosted its interest rate by a jumbo-sized 75 basis points, matching recent U.S. hikes.
The two unrelated events underscored the difficulties central banks are facing in cooling the still hot job market and stemming inflation, and they sent equities downward.
However, bitcoin and ether, the two largest cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, continued to sail along at roughly the same levels they’ve maintained for much of the past two weeks. BTC was holding steady at about $20,200, while ETH continued to hover over $1,500 – both up a few smidgens during the past 24 hours. Crypto investors have recently been undeterred by a raft of evidence that conditions are still not ready to settle down.
“Hawkish monetary policy and macroeconomic uncertainty rage on,” CoinDesk crypto markets analyst Glenn Williams wrote. “But crypto investors ultimately have little else on their mind than cost basis.”
A number major tokens spent much of the day trading solidly in the green, with MATIC and LRC recently up nearly 11% and 7%, respectively. But popular meme coin DOGE plunged more than 9% following a report that Twitter's mercurial new owner, Elon Musk, was halting work on the social media platform's crypto wallet. The token spiked 16% last week as Musk, an avid DOGE supporter, neared completion of his $44 billion deal. Musk's activities and utterances have consistently influenced DOGE's price.
The job market may soon offer more concrete evidence that central bank measures to tame rising prices are working. Job cuts by online retail giant Amazon and ride-share service Uber sent equity markets falling. The tech-focused Nasdaq dropped 1.7%, while the S&P 500 was off 1%. Amazon warned that business would be declining. Safe haven gold continued a recent series of declines, and was down 0.4%.
In an interview on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Bilal Little, president of asset management platform DFD Partners, said the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate boost provided markets with clarity and that investors would pivot to next week's Consumer Price Index for the latest read on inflation.
Little struck an upbeat note about bitcoin, saying that investors would be ""looking to assets for better returns, in this case bitcoin.""
""The market is looking for a nice surprise to the upside,"" he said.
By Sam Reynolds
Alameda Research and FTX, which once both had Sam Bankman-Fried at the top, have tried to create a firewall between the two firms more recently.
In October 2021, SBF handed over control of Alameda Research to Caroline Ellison and Sam Trabucco. Concerns about conflicts of interest were rising because Alameda had the tripartite role as a market maker, investor and trader.
Many FTX users didn’t like that SBF, and by virtue FTX, led the firms as they might find themselves lining the pockets of Alameda as they traded a new token it was market making or, perhaps worse, being on the other side of a trade against Alameda.
A firewall was put in place, and the SBF-led empire tried to make Alameda a separate institution from FTX.
The biggest asset
But recently, CoinDesk came into possession of an internal Alameda document that outlined its balance sheet.
And the biggest assets on the books? FTX’s FTT token.
This makes the two firms bound to each other.
FTT’s token officially gives exchange users discounts on trading fees if they stake it. But, practically, it operates as something akin to stock. In good times, FTT’s token rises; in bad times, it declines. Apropos, whenever bad news about Binance hits the newswires, its eponymous token, BNB, declines.
So now, approximately $5.2 billion of Alameda’s net worth of $14.6 billion is tied up in “unlocked FTT” and “FTT collateral.”
If, for some reason, FTX faces a crisis, or a fierce competitor, Alameda risks becoming less liquid. If there’s a massive market drawdown, the contagion between a crippled FTX and Alameda would create a catastrophe that would make Three Arrows Capital’s “Lehman moment” look like a monthly cyclical correction.
Likewise, there’s still a problematic relationship between FTX and Alameda. Market manipulation is on everyone’s mind, which is why in TradFi such an arrangement would not be allowed.
The dynamic would be similar in theory to the New York Stock Exchange and market-maker goliath Citadel Securities having the same parent, with NYSE and its executives emphasizing stocks being market made by Citadel. Such ingredients would be ripe for a congressional inquiry. But these types of relationships don’t happen because TradFi market makers are bound by registration requirements and some form of transparency.
There’s $41 million of SOL also on Alameda’s books, as Solana was an investment by FTX and a made market by Alameda. Solana has fallen out of favor with traders given its frequent ""breakdowns"" and the questionable size of its development community. When Alameda and FTX were pushing this token throughout the summer of 2021, did they know something that retail did not?
Occasionally, over-the-counter deals Alameda is involved in, such as with Reef Finance, sometimes go wrong and retail traders are left to punt around in the shadows of the elites.
Like many crypto companies, Alameda exists as a collection of corporate entities spanning multiple countries from the Far East to Delaware. Has anyone seen a list of shareholders?
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(00:30 UTC) Reserve Bank of Australia Monetary Policy Statement
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 UTC) United States Nonfarm Payrolls (Oct)
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 UTC) Canada's Unemployment Rate (Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Slips as Bank of England Hikes Key Interest Rate by 75 Basis Points; Are Crypto Payments in Twitter's Future?
The Bank of England's 0.75 percentage point interest rate hike is its biggest in 33 years. Bilal Little, president of DFD Partners, provided his crypto markets outlook following the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to also hike interest rates 75 basis points. Plus, as Twitter reportedly plans a massive round of layoffs, speculation swirls around whether Elon Musk plans to turn Twitter into a super app that includes payments. CoinDesk's Emily Parker examined the reasons why payments and other new features may be part of Twitter's future.
US Accounting Standards Board Member Supports Reporting Crypto Swings as Income, Bloomberg Reports: If adopted, the move would mean cryptocurrency gains and losses would directly impact companies’ earnings.
Japan Digital Ministry to Create DAO for Web3 Exploration: The ministry is looking to develop understanding of what such organizations can achieve and probe their limitations.
Fidelity Opens Waiting List for Retail Crypto Product: The launch is another sign of the investment giant's interest in crypto.
Payments Processor Stripe Cutting Over 1,000 Jobs: The firm is cutting 14% of its staff, according to a memo.
India's Crypto, Web3 Industry Forms New Advocacy Body: A previous organization representing the industry was disbanded earlier this year."
240,12,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/06/binance-sells-holdings-of-ftx-token-as-alameda-ceo-defends-firms-financial-condition/,Binance to Sell Rest of FTX Token Holdings as Alameda CEO Defends Firm's Financial Condition,Alameda's CEO offered to buy Binance's FTT token holdings for $22 apiece.,2022-11-06,"Binance’s CEO, responding to a CoinDesk scoop about trading firm Alameda Research’s balance sheet, tweeted Sunday that he will sell the remaining FTT tokens held on his books that he took on as part of his exit from Alameda sister company FTX last year.
Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao did not say how much FTT his firm will sell, but that as part of the cryptocurrency exchange’s exit from FTX equity last year, Binance received roughly $2.1 billion worth in the form of BUSD (Binance's stablecoin) and FTT.
As part of Binance’s exit from FTX equity last year, Binance received roughly $2.1 billion USD equivalent in cash (BUSD and FTT). Due to recent revelations that have came to light, we have decided to liquidate any remaining FTT on our books. 1/4
Alameda’s CEO, meanwhile, tweeted that her trading firm’s financial condition is stronger than what was reflected by the balance sheet CoinDesk wrote about. She also offered, in a reply to the Binance CEO’s post, to buy his firm’s FTT token holdings for $22 each.
@cz_binance if you're looking to minimize the market impact on your FTT sales, Alameda will happily buy it all from you today at $22!
Speculation over the FTT token led to extreme price volatility amid the back-and-forth Twitter exchange.
Read more: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried’s Crypto Empire Blur on His Trading Titan Alameda’s Balance Sheet
In his initial tweet, Zhao said Binance's sale would be executed in a way that “minimizes market impact” and could take “a few months to complete.”
Blockchain explorer Etherscan showed an address moving 23 million FTT (worth approximately $530 million) to a Binance exchange wallet Saturday afternoon.
🐳⚠️ Transfer $583M worth of $FTX Token from 0x04b4 to 0x28c6 on Ethereum 💸https://t.co/zwjwAFxdlu
The price of FTT declined 14% over a 24-hour period to $22.02, its lowest price since June, according to CoinMarketCap. As of press time, the price of FTT rebounded to $23.03.
Zhao’s announcement comes after rumors swirled about the financial health of Sam Bankman-Fried’s trading firm Alameda Research after a leaked balance sheet reviewed by CoinDesk revealed the trading firm owned $5.8 billion of FTT tokens (including FTT tokens pledged as collateral) as of June 30. Alameda was revealed to have $14.6 billion in assets and $8 billion in liabilities, including $7.4 billion in unidentified loans.
On Saturday, Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison responded to the rumors by tweeting that Alameda had over $10 billion of assets “not reflected” on the leaked balance sheet. Ellison added that Alameda had undisclosed hedges in place and had already returned a bulk of their outstanding loans.
Zhao added that the sale of Binance’s FTT holdings was not to be interpreted as a slight against a competitor exchange.
“We typically hold tokens for the long term. And we have held on to this token for this long,” he tweeted. “We stay transparent with our actions.”
UPDATE (Nov. 6, 17:17 UTC): Adds additional context in body, details from Etherscan.
UPDATE (Nov. 6, 18:10 UTC): Updates FTT price."
241,18,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/ftt-alameda-drama-weighs-on-market-as-asia-begins-its-week/,FTT-Alameda Drama Weighs on Market as Asia Begins Its Week,"FTT, SOL, and BNB all begin the week in the red as the market digests Alameda’s questionable financial position.",2022-11-07,"Traders in Asia awoke to a market partially in the red as the digital assets industry continues to deal with the controversy over trading firm Alameda Research’s balance sheet.
FTX’s FTT exchange token, which makes up a significant amount of Alameda's assets, is down 5% on day as Binance’s CEO Changpeng Zhao publicly feuded with Alameda’s CEO Caroline Ellison about selling off Binance’s FTT holdings.
Exchange balances of FTT are also surging, according to data provided by Glassnode. Typically, high exchange balances imply that there's a lot of liquidity for buying and selling tokens. This usually results in a downwards price trend as traders look to sell tokens.
Data from Nansen shows that FTX is suffering from a major spike in exchange outflows. During the last week approximately $292 million in stablecoins have left FTX. Traders could be departing the exchange over fears of liquidity issues, as Alameda is a large market maker on FTX.
Meanwhile, Solana, a token backed by Alameda and FTX, is down 11% on day. According to a copy of the Alameda balance sheet seen by CoinDesk, Alameda holds $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.”
Also caught in the market turmoil is Binance’s BNB token, which is down 4%.
Perhaps the fears of a full-blown liquidity crisis are overblown as market leaders bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) held steady. Bitcoin's implied volatility, or options traders' expectations for price turbulence over a specific period, continue to trend sideways, indicating little signs of panic.
The current CoinDesk Market Index is at 1,041. Bitcoin, the largest digital asset by market cap, is currently at $20,878, down 1.7% on day."
242,10,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/open-interest-in-ftt-futures-doubles-to-203-million-as-binance-decides-to-sell-ftxs-native-token/,Open Interest in FTT Futures Doubles as Binance Moves to Liquidate FTX Token Holdings,"Open interest has doubled to $203 million, with bearish bets in demand, as Binance's entry into the FTX-Alameda drama has caused panic among investors.",2022-11-07,"Traders are scurrying to hedge against a potential slide in crypto exchange FTX's native token, FTT, in the wake of Binance's decision to liquidate FTT holdings and controversy surrounding Alameda's balance sheet.
Open interest, or the dollar amount dedicated to futures and perpetual futures tied to FTT, has more than doubled from $87.56 million to $203 million since early Asian hours, reaching a 12-month high, according to CoinGlass.
The funding rate, or the cost of holding bullish long positions or bearish short positions, has dropped sharply to an annualized -36%, per data provided by Matrixport Technologies. A negative funding rate implies shorts or bears have the upper hand and are willing to pay funding to longs to keep their positions open.
The combination of rising open interest and the negative funding rate suggests traders are taking short positions on FTT.
""FTT’s funding rate has dropped to -36% annualized as opening interest has doubled. Many new shorts seem to have been put on,"" Markus Thielen, head of research at Strategy at Matrixport, said. ""Trading volumes in the FTT spot market has increased from $58 million to $3 billion.""
Griffin Ardern, volatility trader from crypto asset management firm Blofin, said, ""Last week, Alameda's balance sheet was questioned, and Binance also announced that it would liquidate FTT and other assets related to the FTX exchange. That appears to have caused a panic among investors, who chose to hedge their assets such as FTT.""
""FTT holders have to stop losses by shorting perps,"" Ardern added. The token was down 4% on the day at $22 at press time, according to CoinDesk data.
On Sunday, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao tweeted that he will be liquidating the remaining FTT tokens acquired as a part of the exit from Alameda's sister company FTX last year.
""Due to recent revelations that have come to light, we have decided to liquidate any remaining FTT on our books,"" Zhao tweeted, referring to CoinDesk's scoop about Alameda holding $3.66 billion worth of unlocked or illiquid FTT tokens on its balance sheet.
""Liquidating our FTT is just post-exit risk management, learning from LUNA,"" Zhao added.
Terra's LUNA token (now known as LUNC) crashed in May, destroying billions of dollars in investor wealth.
According to crypto exchange Phemex, Alameda owns over 50% of the FTT token, and a continued slide in the cryptocurrency's price could have market-wide ramifications.
""As the price decreases, Alameda will be the only buyer. The main takeaway is despite a recent price spike in cryptocurrencies, if there’s another potential big-time player getting margin called, it could reignite fear that a LUNA-type situation could occur before the end of 2022,"" Phemex said in a daily market note.
Read: FTT-Alameda Drama Weighs on Market as Asia Begins its Week"
243,11,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/first-mover-americas-binance-dumps-ftt-tokens/,First Mover Americas: Binance Dumps FTT Tokens,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 7, 2022.",2022-11-07,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao said the exchange plans to sell all of its FTT tokens after a CoinDesk report revealed the potentially parlous state of trading firm and FTX sister company Alameda Research. Zhao tweeted that Binance will sell all of the remaining FTT (FTX’s native token) that it received last year as part of its exit from FTX equity. Although Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison offered to buy back Binance’s entire FTT allocation, the token declined from over $25 to under $22 and is down 1.6% on the day.
Canadian bitcoin miner Hive Blockchain appears to be in better shape than many of its mining peers. The firm has 3,311 BTC worth $68.8 million, and, unlike several rivals, it has no debt-servicing payments related to digital assets or its mining equipment. The crypto market slump in recent months has hit mining firms hard, with share prices tanking and companies seeking means to manage liquidity and debt.
Stablecoin issuer Paxos is eyeing a major hiring push in Singapore, where it last week received a license to offer crypto products and services. The firm plans to add more than 130 employees to its current staff of 20 over the next three years, making the city-state its hub for growth outside its U.S. home. Paxos is one of the few crypto companies that are bucking the trend of the wider story in the digital-assets industry, which has been dominated by layoffs as a result of the market downturn.
The chart shows the bitcoin futures market volume and the cryptocurrency's spot price since December 2021. Futures trading volume has dropped sharply in recent weeks, indicating a spot-driven market.
""The reduced traded volume in the futures market reinforced the thesis of a lack of speculation to the up and downside as the spot market continued to drive the price action,"" Glassnode's co-founders Yann Allemann and Jan Happel wrote in the latest edition of their Uncharted newsletter.
""Increased spot volume suggests an agreement that bitcoin is where it needs to be,"" the newsletter added.
– Omkar Godbole
Bernstein Says Polygon Blockchain Is the Web3 King
USDC Issuer Circle to Add Solana Support for Euro Coin in 2023
Bitcoin (Magic Internet Money!) Again Proves Less Volatile Than Stocks"
244,800,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/07/money-crypto-versus-tech-crypto/,Money Crypto Versus Tech Crypto,How the two faces of the ecosystem impact the regulatory discussion.,2022-11-07,"Our internal and external debates regarding regulation would improve if we thought of crypto as two ecosystems rather than one. There is a basic dichotomy that has a big effect on the policy debate, explains where we are with regulation today and will define how we move forward. But we never talk about it. That should change.
One side of crypto is predominantly about investment. Call it “money crypto.”  In essence, it is about buying, holding, lending and trading tokens as investable assets. Money crypto wants big institutions and retirement funds to invest and a spot exchange-traded product that every retail investor buys. When money crypto says “it’s still early,” this means that most people haven’t bought yet. This side has the attention of regulators.
Bill Hughes is the senior counsel and director of global regulatory matters at ConsenSys Software.
The other side is about building peer-to-peer computer networks where participants transact by interacting with globally accessible software. Call it “tech crypto.” Tech crypto wants these new computer ecosystems to actually work and provide utility for their users. When tech crypto says “it’s still early,” it means that a lot of the key tech that will define the long term has yet to be built out. The required innovation has not much directly to do with prices going up (but prices going up isn’t irrelevant, in part because it impacts upon the security of these protocols). Generally, this side is poorly understood by regulators but some are learning fast.
Centralized finance (CeFi) is the beating heart of money crypto. Intermediaries define the investment landscape and are the driving force. In tech crypto, by contrast, the defining feature is software serving as a transactional counterparty or intermediary. Tech crypto is much more DeFi (decentralized finance) than CeFi.
Money crypto and tech crypto present different risks that public policy might address. In money crypto, the risks look more or less as they do in traditional finance: third-party custody, third-party-facilitated payments, retail investor protection, illicit finance and market manipulation, among other things. CeFi looks a lot like traditional finance (TradFi), after all. Tech crypto risk encompasses some of these categories but includes entirely different ones, too: hazardous self-custody, vulnerable smart contracts, good and bad actors having equal access and public, pseudonymous and irreversible transactions. DeFi opens up a whole different problem set with which public policy is unfamiliar.
See also: Why Trading Is Essential for Crypto | Opinion
The money crypto versus tech crypto distinction has come into brighter relief recently. Crypto OG Erik Voorhees and FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried’s recent discussion about regulatory policy touched often on this underlying distinction. SBF generally provided the perspective of money crypto while Voorhees often advanced the banner of tech crypto. Vitalik Buterin chimed in on Twitter that he would prefer slower investment mass adoption if it gave time for the tech to improve – a tech crypto perspective. The remarkably entertaining Bloomberg contributor Matt Levine astutely recognized a money versus tech distinction in his recent comprehensive treatment of crypto.
This distinction is in our face. It’s time we acknowledge it during regulatory debate. Failure to do just that has been muddling things for some time.
Money crypto has been the 800-pound gorilla in the regulatory debate so far. Money crypto captures far more popular attention, has a set of policy issues that need more immediate resolution (e.g., let Americans trade perpetual futures on margin), donates more to political campaigns, spends more on policy people, lobbyists and policy advertising, and generally is more sophisticated with how international, federal and state policy is created and implemented. Money crypto has thus been leading the agenda and defining the issues. “Regulatory clarity” has been the major policy talking point in large part because regulations are likely to open broader investor markets, not because developers want permission to write a new smart contract. Money crypto appears much more ready, willing and able to reach regulatory compromises that unlock new markets for their camp, even compromises that would present uncapped regulatory risk to tech crypto.
Money crypto has been driving the regulatory discussion, which has led many regulators to overemphasize the investment aspect of crypto. Digital assets are just things you buy low and sell high, they think.
Tech crypto has been in the backseat. Having less capital to throw at lobbying and policymaking, being less sophisticated with the ways of Washington, D.C., and not having as many existential regulatory questions pending, tech crypto has a much lower profile. Most legislators have heard of ether and its meteoric price rise. Few understand that Ethereum is a computing platform. Almost no one understands the protocols being built on it.
But the balance in advocacy is very much shifting, which should make for a smarter discussion. And this shift is not by accident. Tech crypto sees regulators now scrutinizing peer-to-peer networks, unhosted wallets, smart contracts and the like. The specter of peer-to-peer (P2P) regulation is now on the horizon, and therefore as a matter of growing necessity tech crypto is committing more resources into policy development and advocacy.
See also: Coinbase Deal Shows Google Is Committed to Crypto | Opinion
We see this trend manifested in the recent response to the Digital Asset Commodity Consumer Protection Act, which sits with committees in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate. While money crypto – especially a considerably active major CeFi player that will remain nameless – has been pushing for its passage, tech crypto has been howling that vague and ambiguous provisions would permit the CFTC plenary authority to regulate P2P protocols. Those criticisms have put the bill sponsors and some in money crypto at a disadvantage. That is a good sign.
As tech crypto starts playing a more important role in the conversation, we should embrace both sides. Neither is good or bad – rather, their relationship is symbiotic. Most people only care about tech crypto because money crypto has helped the price go up, and the price goes up only because tech crypto is making something that enough people believe may actually change the world for the better. Yet, acting like they are the same frustrates a competent debate of the policy issues.
It also confuses regulators. If there is no gap between money crypto and tech crypto, then regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have a rhetorical basis to prescribe the same regulatory solution across both spaces.
“Because we obviously get to regulate the investment side, we should regulate the tech side, too,” is the logic. Properly framing the two sides would ideally result in agencies acting more like FinCEN has to date. That agency in 2020 saw a rushed rule looking to hobble unhosted wallets, and properly resisted (to the extent they were able) their U.S. Treasury Department bosses. They knew that their congressional mandate could be extended to money crypto, which often engages in money services business, but extending their supervision to tech crypto was beyond their authority.
A coherent approach would mean addressing money crypto regulation first and then getting to tech crypto later. Money crypto is much more readily regulated. While we may be far from great at it, we have experience regulating intermediated financial systems. We could and should prioritize working out all the messy but important details, including custodial requirements, know-your-customer (KYC) and balance sheet transparency, that must be resolved in CeFi. By focusing on a properly regulated CeFi first, we would address that part of crypto which is undeniably larger, more exposed to retail, and more connected with TradFi.
Read more: The Ethereum Killers Are All Zombies Now | Opinion
While we are doing that, we can evolve our views and hopefully reach greater consensus about risks and mitigation strategies relating to the global, permissionless P2P crypto space. This approach makes sense in no small part because of how early in its evolution DeFi is, and the near certainty that it will meaningfully evolve over the coming years. Some of that change will inevitably address many risks we see today.
We should be more appropriately reactive when it comes to money crypto versus tech crypto. Advocates should mobilize swiftly to confront the folly of any law or regulation that seeks to expand the definition of a virtual asset service provider (VASP) or a crypto asset service provider (CASP) to technology providers or platforms. When we hear “same rules for DeFi and CeFi,” we should call out the flaw and the resulting policy incoherence.
While their differences are important, money crypto and tech crypto need each other. In the short and medium term, tech crypto gets a massive influx of ideas, energy and talent because of investment interest. These are the most important ingredients to keep marching the path of innovation. Money crypto needs these protocols to win over the long term for these tokens to actually be worth something. But these two sides of crypto are not the same, and both our engagement approach and policy goals should reflect that."
245,14,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/07/ftx-ceo-sam-bankman-fried-denies-insolvency-rumors-as-binance-liquidates-ftt-token/,FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried Denies Insolvency Rumors as Binance Liquidates FTT Token,The head of FTX sister company Alameda Research offered to buy as much FTT as Binance wants to sell.,2022-11-07,"As speculation mounted over the weekend about the solvency of billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX crypto exchange, the FTX CEO tweeted early Monday morning that ""FTX is fine. Assets are fine.""
""FTX has enough to cover all client holdings,"" he added. ""We don't invest client assets (even in Treasurys). We have been processing all withdrawals, and will continue to be.""
Last week, CoinDesk published a story revealing the balance sheet of FTX sister company Alameda Research was loaded with FTX's native exchange token FTT. That led to a public war of words between Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison and Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao, also owner of a sizable number of FTT tokens.
Noting the revelations in that CoinDesk report, Zhao said his exchange would begin liquidating any remaining FTT it held on its books. Ellison fired back over Twitter, saying Alameda stood ready to purchase for $22 each (roughly the price at the time) any amount of FTT Binance wanted to unload.
In a tweet Monday afternoon, Zhao appeared to rebuff Ellison's offer, saying Binance would ""stay in the free market.""
""I'd love it if we could work together for the ecosystem,"" Bankman-Fried said in his tweet on Monday, referring to Zhao.
The FTX token (FTT) was recently trading at $22.34, according to CoinDesk data. It is down 14% so far this month.
UPDATE (UTC 21:02): Adds additional tweet comment from Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao."
246,1077,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/how-digital-assets-get-into-investable-indices/,How Digital Assets Get Into Investable Indices,"To help investors understand and navigate the complexity of digital assets, CoinDesk Indices launched the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS)",2022-11-07,"Since the inception of bitcoin in 2008, the digital asset industry has been growing at a rapid pace, accelerating the emergence of the new digital finance economy. This booming new asset class has resulted in the development of new investment vehicles and opportunities with thousands of different projects, use cases and applications using blockchain technology to transform industry infrastructure. While there is a wide range of estimates on the number of existing cryptocurrencies, the growth is clear. As of Oct. 26, 2022, coinmarketcap.com, coingecko.com and investing.com listed 21,522, 13,260, and 9,409 coins, respectively.
Number of Cryptocurrencies Worldwide From 2013 to August 2022
This extraordinary growth has created a commensurate amount of complexity. To help investors better understand the digital asset space, CoinDesk Indices introduced the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS). DACS provides the market with a reliable structure and transparency to help classify and simplify the industries inside the asset class. DACS also serves as the fundamental framework and foundation that supports CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) benchmarks for performance measurement and CoinDesk Select Indices for building investment strategies.
This paper covers our process of narrowing the universe of digital assets for investable indices. It outlines how DACS defines and organizes industries for digital asset categorization, then reviews minimum eligibility for inclusion in benchmarks to provide market measurements. It finally describes the stricter criteria for inclusion in investable indices.
CoinDesk Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS)
Using a classification standard to define markets is not a new concept. The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS), developed by MSCI and Standard & Poor’s in 1999, has been widely used by equity investors to classify publicly traded companies globally. Research shows GICS explains stock return co-movements within sectors, helping investors determine important drivers for company valuations, identify relative value opportunities by comparing companies in the same sector and develop sector level macro insights to make decisions on asset allocation.
Furthermore, sector indices developed based on GICS have become the backbone of investor allocation, risk and performance-evaluation models. According to a recent Index Industry Association (IIA) benchmark survey, approximately 1.47 million sector- or industry-based indices are calculated daily, which is nearly half of all available equity indices. This truly speaks to the power of GICS to modernize equity investing.
While DACS is unique to digital assets, it serves many of the same functions as classification systems used for traditional asset classes. Among other things, DACS provides the market with a transparent and standardized method to determine sector and industry exposure, facilitate portfolio attribution analysis and help pinpoint investment opportunities.
DACS is designed to define and organize the industries of digital assets to enable each of the top 500 eligible digital assets by market capitalization to be assigned to an industry based on its use case and technology. Then, each industry is assigned to an industry group and each industry group is assigned to a sector. This classification currently results in a three-tiered hierarchy. The industry, industry group and sector definitions in the DACS glossary provide a common language for the industry. The definitions set the framework for the standard taxonomy of digital assets.
To be included in DACS, digital assets must be covered by CoinMarketCap.com and ranked in the top 500 digital assets. However, any asset with significantly contested or disputed circulating supply data, lack of transparency in the form of public documentation and white papers, or assets that are no longer in operation or have been restructured will be excluded from DACS. Moreover, assets that are considered a gas token, staked token or wrapped are not currently eligible for inclusion in DACS.
The assignment of an industry to a digital asset is based on the asset’s actual or intended use case or application. This is determined by reviewing available documentation or white papers on the project’s website, its social media channels, on-chain activity, third party audits, peer reviews or other publicly available information.
Once the use case and/or application has been determined, the digital asset will be assigned to the most appropriate Industry, using the definitions in the Glossary. The Industry assignment will be guided by identifying the dominant use case or application of the digital asset and identifying digital assets with similar use cases or applications.
Industry definitions as defined in the Glossary may require modifications because they are intended to account for new use cases or applications not previously considered. The definitions should reflect accurately current terminology in the digital asset space and provide clarifications, increase transparency and improve consistency.
The DACS structure will also be modified as needed to capture the evolution of the digital asset market. These changes may include expanding or collapsing the number of sectors, industry groups or industries. The changes might also involve migrating industry groups or industries within the DACS hierarchy as well as material changes to existing definitions used to classify a digital asset.
Any modification to the DACS structure will be announced publicly with appropriate lead time prior to implementation. These changes are generally determined based on market input and feedback. To facilitate these discussions, CoinDesk Indices may issue public consultations to provide analysis and proposals seeking feedback to help inform its final decision. Additionally, the DACS Advisory Council is composed of key digital asset market participants and other influential individuals within the digital asset space to assist CoinDesk Indices in determining potential changes to the DACS structure.
Lastly, DACS is governed by the DACS Committee, which is responsible for the oversight of the DACS structure, definitions, and classifications. Material changes to the DACS structure and/or DACS Methodology must be reviewed and approved by the DACS Committee prior to implementation.
Although DACS serves a vital role in defining, organizing and categorizing the industries and digital assets based on their use cases and technology to provide a common language and standard taxonomy to classify tokens, it is unable to measure markets to support investment strategy. Therefore, the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) Family was developed to enable performance measurement of the broad digital asset market and its segments.
CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) Family
Benchmark indices are often the most underrated yet most powerful drivers of returns. This is because indices are used throughout the investment process at nearly every critical decision-making stage. First, indices are often used as the asset class proxy in asset allocation models to decide how much to allocate for a given set of goals. Then, benchmarks are used to find managers that outperform or are uncorrelated so the money can be put to work. Managers often use the constituents of the benchmark as their starting universe and further use the benchmark sector and constituent weights as the anchor to overweight or underweight positions, or even go short for hedge funds, in their strategies. Beyond the technical data, the industry fundamentals are used in sector- or factor-focused rotation strategies and for peer group valuations. Then, in post-investment analysis, benchmarks help answer the question whether managers did a good job.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) and its subindices are a family of broad-based digital asset indices designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market. The family includes indices that reflect sectors defined in DACS.
The CMI Methodology narrows the DACS digital asset universe by requiring minimum pricing, then market cap weighting the eligible assets. There are four major eligibility criteria for assets to be included in the CMI family:
1. Inclusion in the latest DACS report
2. Must be listed on at least two eligible exchanges
3. Must be listed on an Eligible Exchange* for a minimum of 30 days
4. Pricing must be available by a CoinDesk reference price**
The constituents that meet the above four requirements are then weighted by market capitalization. They are reconstituted and rebalanced on a monthly basis. The CMI index family is calculated in real time using reference rates for each asset.
Given that the goal of CMI is to be as broad as possible, it aims to capture all digital assets that meet the Eligibility Criteria including stablecoins and meme coins. It provides a broad representation of the performance of the digital asset market and its segments. Therefore, it may include digital assets that are relatively illiquid or otherwise difficult to access, own, trade or custody. Digital assets that meet all eligibility criteria are included regardless of their designation as a security by a government agency.
Currently, the CMI eligibility criteria narrows the 500 digital assets assigned by DACS to 150 digital assets, covering 89% of the market cap. While CMI serves a solid role in performance measurement for various use cases, it is generally not replicable for tracking products like funds or derivatives. Therefore, the CoinDesk Select Indices were created to deliver investable index strategies.
CoinDesk Select Indices
The innovations in financial products from derivatives to ETFs and now tokenized funds have increased demand for investable indices that serve as the underlying strategies for these tracking products. Although the growth of index strategies has exploded in traditional and alternative asset classes, the digital asset indices that are intended to underpin investment products are relatively new due to specific requirements by investors. Therefore, the CoinDesk Select Indices are designed to measure the performance of some of the largest and most liquid digital assets classified in DACS that meet certain trading and custody requirements.
Generally, the CoinDesk Select Indices*** include five to 10 assets that meet stricter eligibility criteria than the simple availability of pricing and market cap data. There are four major eligibility criteria to determine the Select Index Universe:
1. The digital asset must be ranked in the top 200 in the latest published DACS report.
2. Custodian services for the digital asset must be available from Coinbase Custody, a division of Coinbase Global Inc., and the digital asset must be accessible by U.S. investors.
3. The digital asset must not be a stablecoin or categorized as a meme coin as determined by CDI.
4. The digital asset must have been listed on an Eligible Exchange for a minimum of 30 days.
Next, the top 20 digital assets from the Index Universe are ranked by market cap to determine Selection Universe before the constituents are chosen. Five to 10 digital assets are included from the Selection Universe by their median daily value traded and median market cap, where higher thresholds are required for non-constituents than for incumbent constituents. The median daily value traded and median market cap values need to be greater than or equal to 1.2 times the 30-day median for non-constituents, and constituents need to have greater than or equal to the 30-day median for constituents. Non-constituents must be on Watchlist by passing all eligibility criteria for one quarter ahead of the quarter a digital asset may be added to the index.
While the selected assets may be weighted in various ways including by market cap, equally weighted or risk weighted, the market cap weighted results generally maintain the sector exposures in proportion to the broad set of digital assets. The process in narrowing the universe from 500 digital assets assigned in DACS to currently 150 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) and further to the current set of 28 assets in the Select Sectors enables investors to access the market beta with relatively few assets. Because the digital asset market is still emerging and highly concentrated, the set of fewer assets covers most of the market cap with just over 5% (28 digital assets) of assets covering nearly 75% of the entire market cap.
Conclusion
The incredible growth in digital assets beyond bitcoin has created numerous investment opportunities across the new economy. However, finding those investment opportunities in the sea of digital assets requires a deep understanding of use cases and technology combined with expertise about Investability. Narrowing the digital asset universe by pricing availability, liquidity, exchange and custodial requirements is critical to determine which digital assets are appropriate for quality investors. The methodical practices developed to organize the digital asset universe and select the largest and most liquid constituents representing the asset class and its sectors may help investors throughout their investment processes.
Footnotes:
* Eligible Exchanges listed in the CoinDesk Digital Asset Indices Policy Methodology, Binance.US, BitFlyer, Bitstamp, Bittrex, Coinbase Pro, ErisX, FTX.US, Gemini, itBit, Kraken, LMAX Digital, Okcoin.
** Real-time “spot” reference price rates for constituent digital assets are calculated approximately every 5 seconds by CDI using a volume weighted average price (VWAP) across at least two contributing exchanges over the prior 60 minutes.
*** The CoinDesk Select Indices currently include the CoinDesk Large Cap Select Index, CoinDesk Industry Group Select Equal Weight Index, CoinDesk Select Sector Index and CoinDesk Select Industry Group Index. All methodologies are posted at https://www.coindesk.com/indices/crypto-index-governance."
247,104,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/ftxalameda-questions-hold-the-spotlight-as-us-midterm-election-inflation-data-loom/,"FTX/Alameda Questions Hold the Spotlight as US Midterm Election, Inflation Data Loom",A drop below $22 could mean a more significant ride down for FTT.,2022-11-07,"Crypto investors will be noting two significant macro events this week: the Nov. 8 midterm elections and the Nov. 10 Consumer Price Index (CPI) report.
How crypto prices will react to the midterms is unclear. Democrats and Republicans are more focused on gaining control of the House of Representatives and Senate than debating crypto policies.
Investors will be eyeing whether the CPI veers much from an expected 6.5% increase that will signal inflation remains untamed, potentially testing anew cryptos’ status as an inflation hedge.
Meanwhile, the crypto industry breathlessly considered questions about the solvency of crypto exchange FTX and the impact on its sister company, Alameda Research. As CoinDesk reported over the weekend, much of Alameda’s equity appears to consist of FTX’s FTT token. The outsized percentage of FTX’s value tied to an asset issued by a related entity has raised concerns about a repeat of issues that have already sent three of the industry’s biggest brands this year – crypto lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital and hedge fund Three Arrows Capital – into bankruptcy.
FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried tweeted unequivocally that FTX and its assets “are fine.”
""FTX has enough to cover all client holdings,"" he wrote. ""We don't invest client assets (even in Treasurys). We have been processing all withdrawals, and will continue to be.""
1) A competitor is trying to go after us with false rumors.

FTX is fine. Assets are fine.

Details:
When Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao announced earlier that his crypto exchange would liquidate all remaining FTT on its books, Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison responded that her company would “happily buy back” FTT at $22 from them.
At the time, FTT was trading in a $21 to $24 range. An offer to bid at $22 aligned with market conditions.
Still, FTT’s $22 price is significant when considering the asset’s trading volume. The Volume Profile Visible Range (VPVR) tool determines an asset’s potential areas of support and resistance. It provides a visual representation of trading volume by price level, and indicates areas of high or low agreement on price.
An asset’s price tends to move slowly in “high volume node” areas, as there is generally sufficient market demand at those particular price levels.
Prices often move rapidly through “low volume node” areas and can lead to rapid increases or decreases dependent on market direction.
What this implies for FTX is that if its price cannot be defended at the $22 level, buying demand doesn’t appear again until close to $10.
It can be argued that another significant decrease in activity exists below $10, until approximately $5.
FTT’s recent price decline dovetailed with a significant spike in volume, which is generally a bearish sign.
Whether the FTX and Alameda rumors have substance remains unclear. FTT’s price was recently 0.26% higher, actually outpacing BTC.
The most important question is whether a decline in FTT, and potential insolvency of FTX and Alameda would have a negative spillover impact on the prices of BTC and ETH.
This would likely only take place if FTX and/or Alameda had to liquidate BTC and ETH holdings to shore up its liquidity.
Little in bitcoin or ether’s current price action indicates as such."
248,1083,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/07/in-praise-of-white-hat-hackers-but-overreliance-is-foolish/,"In Praise of White-Hat Hackers, but Overreliance Is Foolish",Subtitle not found,2022-11-07,"In August, Nomad, a platform that allows users to transfer tokens between different blockchains, fell victim to a hack that drained its users of nearly $200 million.
Instructions on how to execute the attack spread like wildfire across Twitter, turning a one-off heist into a free-for-all open to anyone who could copy and paste a transaction on the Ethereum blockchain.
As black-hat hackers ran away with millions, so-called “white hats” – good Samaritans – looted the funds so that they could return them to Nomad. Altogether, the grassroots rescue effort kept more than $38.5 million out of the hands of attackers.
White-hat hackers play a critical role in securing the Web3 ecosystem, and yet, according to DarkFi.eth – one of the hackers who exploited Nomad in order to rescue its funds from attackers – altruistic hackers aren’t paid enough and operate in an unclear legal landscape.
DarkFi.eth (not related to DarkFi, the layer 1 blockchain with the Lunarpunk philosophy) was one of the white hats who stole and subsequently returned roughly $2 million from the Nomad bridge.
When DarkFi saw suspicious transactions flowing into and out of the Nomad bridge smart contract, the hacker copied and pasted the format of those similar-looking transactions into his own, new transactions. Suddenly, some of Nomad’s funds – funds that technically belonged to Nomad’s users – appeared in DarkFi’s crypto wallet.
The pseudonymous hacker quickly snapped into action, recalling in an interview with CoinDesk that he noticed the “potential to get some more of this money out [of Nomad] before it’s taken by other malicious actors.”
DarkFi repeated the buggy transaction several times (one, two, three, four, five).
Intent aside, DarkFi and other white hats performed exactly the same steps as the Nomad exploiters: withdrawing funds without the owners’ permission.
DarkFi wanted to rescue more money, but he said he “basically held off on taking more” because he was “worried about the repercussions of doing it.”
“Even though I fully intended to return the money, it was still kind of unclear,” DarkFi said.
Hackers who scan software code to identify potential vulnerabilities are identified by their metaphorical white and black hats.
Black hats deliberately exploit the vulnerabilities that they find – looting crypto, blackmailing businesses or selling their discoveries to an underground criminal marketplace. Stephen Tong, co-founder of security audit firm Zellic.io, calls these hackers “mercenaries.”
“Black hats are simply looking out for themselves most of the time, whether that’s for profit or entertainment,” Tong told CoinDesk in an interview.
“White hats, on the other hand, are strictly trying to do the right thing. They’re trying to act in good faith,” he said.
In the context of Web3, white hats typically alert protocol developers once they discover a bug that needs patching. In exchange for responsibly disclosing bugs, protocols generally reward white hats with some kind of a bounty.
Sometimes, as in the case of Nomad, white hats will discover a bug so severe they decide to exploit it themselves – securing at-risk funds and returning the funds to the protocol before they can be stolen by someone with ill intent.
In these cases, when a hacker’s original intent is difficult to suss out (perhaps they returned the funds only out of fear of law enforcement), how – and whether – they should be compensated can become difficult for a protocol to decide.
DarkFi highlighted a common issue for white hats: vulnerability disclosure.
When a hacker knows a protocol is vulnerable with funds at risk of withdrawal without the permission of the owners, two options arise for the hacker:
Exploit the vulnerability to secure the funds himself with the intention of giving it back
Alert the project without exploiting the vulnerability
If a white hat took the first option and exploited the vulnerability, “the legal status of what you’re doing is very up in the air. Technically, you can still get sued by a project if you do white-hat work and steal some money to save it from a black-hat hacker,” said DarkFi.
The problem with the second option is the project isn’t incentivized to pay you the full amount once you have already told the project of the bug. Tong indicated that with funds already returned or vulnerabilities already patched, the project loses its incentive to pay the maximum amount it can and the white hat has less leverage.
In both scenarios, white-hat hackers typically want a reward because they saved a protocol from a greater loss. But at the same time, white hats don’t want to come off as extortionists – holding funds or information hostage unless they are “fairly” compensated.
The issue of vulnerability disclosure is “an optimization problem,” Tong said. “Because you want to minimize the pain"" for developers, users and hackers.
If the goal is to minimize as much pain for the developers and users, a project would just patch up the vulnerability and not give the hacker anything. And if the goal is to minimize the hacker’s pain, a project would pay the hacker, a pain point for those in charge.
Is it possible to have a fair outcome that makes everyone happy?
Tong says, “No … In most white-hat scenarios, there’s absolutely no win-win scenario.”
DarkFi returned funds to Nomad in three transactions (one, two, three) before Stani Kulechov, the founder of decentralized finance (DeFi) lending platform Aave, offered party tickets to white hats and before Nomad announced “an up to 10% bounty to Nomad Bridge hackers where Nomad will consider any party who returns at least 90% of the total funds they hacked to be a white hat.”
If a hacker looted $1 million, returned $900,000 and pocketed $100,000, Nomad would consider the hacker a white hat and not pursue legal action.
DarkFi hasn’t received a rAAVE ticket from Kulechov or a reward from Nomad yet.
Additionally, citing Arbitrum’s 400 ETH reward to 0xriptide after that hacker found a critical $400 million vulnerability, DarkFi noted that bounties aren’t high enough initially, saying projects tend to be stingy.
“It should be a very well-paying job to be a white hat,” he said.
“Making it more clear how we appreciate white hats in the space is very important so that in the future money doesn’t get left on the table for black hats,” DarkFi said.
Nomad didn’t return a request for comment by press time.
Last month, Sam Bankman-Fried, CEO of crypto exchange FTX, put forth a new community standard for hackers involved in a security breach.
The “5-5 standard,” which values customer and user protection “above all,” prioritizes making customers whole again before rewarding an ethical hacker.
According to Bankman-Fried, the standard works only when the hacker is acting in good faith from the beginning. To be treated by the community as a ""good actor"" or a white hat, the hacker must return at least 95% of the stolen funds.
“If the 5-5 standard had been followed, historically, it would have reduced the impact of hacks by more than 98%,” Bankman-Fried said.
The number of times white-hat hackers have prevented a protocol from being exploited highlight concerns about how the Web3 ecosystem relies too much on them to catch critical vulnerabilities.
While white hats hold a significant duty in the security of the crypto ecosystem, “it’s absolutely not OK to rely on the white hats to keep you safe because that’s kind of the last line of defense,” Tong said. “That’s like the last saving grace that stops you from getting hacked because if you are getting ‘white-hatted,’ that already is not a great situation to be in.”
According to Tong, more thorough and stringent development practices need to be established in the long run because “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”
A white-hat bug disclosure is “an emergency with a silver lining. Your money was returned even though someone was hacking,” Tong said. “The takeaway is [that] the vulnerability should have been caught during development. It should have been caught during the audit.”"
249,53,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/first-mover-asia-sbf-talks-consumer-protection-and-crypto-titans-clash/,First Mover Asia: FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried Talks Consumer Protection and Crypto Titans Clash,"Consumer protection and regulation are key ingredients to transforming digital assets into an asset class worth trillions. The FTX exchange's Sam Bankman-Fried weighs in. Meanwhile, FTX's FTT token takes a dive after rival Binance announces plans to dump its remaining holdings.",2022-11-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: A posturing battle breaks out between crypto titans over the FTX exchange's FTT token, while Solana's SOL token suffers from a post-conference hangover. Crypto traders are looking ahead to this week's midterm elections in the U.S. and a key inflation report.
Insights: Speaking the same language as regulators is a ticket to making digital assets mainstream, an opportunity worth trillions.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
By Bradley Keoun
The weekend brought no shortage of crypto-markets drama, but it wasn't about bitcoin: Intense speculation appeared to drive steep losses on the FTX exchange's FTT token and Solana's SOL.
The FTX token, which pushed into headlines (and Twitter chatter) last week after CoinDesk reported just how significant of an asset it was on the trading firm Alameda Research's balance sheet, came under additional pressure after Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao tweeted that the firm would sell its remaining holdings of FTT, a stake worth more than $500 million. The FTT price rebounded after the CEO of Alameda, which like FTX is a part of billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's empire, tweeted that it would happily buy FTT at $22 each. But by late Sunday FTT had reversed course and was falling again, around $22.24, down 7.6% over the past 24 hours.
Solana's SOL spiked as Google Cloud announced plans to become a validator on the blockchain network, but by press time it, too, had turned lower and was one of the day's biggest losers among the 162 assets in the CoinDesk Market Index, down 11% over 24 hours. The token had gained in the weeks leading up to Solana's Breakpoint conference currently taking place in Lisbon, Portugal, concluding Monday. These blockchain conferences often bring a slew of announcements that tend to rile up investors, developers and fans, but it's not uncommon for the enthusiasm to fade quickly.
Dogecoin (DOGE), which more than doubled in October to become the top performer in the CMI, is now licking its wounds; the meme token frequently mentioned by billionaire Elon Musk (Twitter's new owner) is down 19% so far this month.
Bitcoin (BTC), for what it's worth, was trading around $21,000 after hitting a fresh seven-week high on Saturday. The largest cryptocurrency's recent gains has pushed it over key levels on price charts, potentially signaling a crucial shift toward a more bullish trend.
Equity markets finished last week on a moderate upswing as the tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) closed Friday up more than a percentage point – in sync with a 4.7% gain that day for bitcoin. Safe haven gold swung upward 3%, a rare exception to its recent form. Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of energy markets, climbed near $99 per barrel, a 5% increase from the start of the week.
In the coming week, crypto traders will be focused on Tuesday's midterm elections in the U.S., which might have major implications for regulatory policy or economic decisions. Then, on Thursday, the U.S. Labor Department is due to report the latest reading of the Consumer Price Index, expected to show that the main inflation rate staying at 8% or higher in October – still not too far from a four-decade high, and indicating just how much work the Federal Reserve has to do to cool off the economy and bring the figure back down.
""The midterms and inflation data will no doubt keep market participants busy,"" Deutsche Bank economists wrote in a report.
By Sam Reynolds
JPMorgan’s Umar Farooq, its blockchain unit boss, said something in very plain language about the future of institutional involvement in crypto during the Singapore Fintech Festival: ""We cannot lose their money.""
Farooq was referring to exactly what it would take for banks to get involved in digital assets. Consumer protection, alongside the ability to identify both parties in the transaction, is key to building a digital assets sector that can be integrated into the world’s banking system and with its trillions in assets.
Think about what happens if you send crypto to the wrong wallet. It’s gone, as Coinbase puts it bluntly on a help page.
“Due to the irreversible nature of cryptocurrency protocols, transactions can't be canceled or reversed once initiated,” the exchange writes. “Because of this, it is essential to exercise caution when sending and make sure the address you are sending to is an exact match of the recipient's address.”
Chainanalysis estimates that around 20% of all bitcoin has been lost in this fashion, and is unrecoverable. Anecdotes of eight-figure amounts effectively evaporating because they were sent to the wrong wallet abound.
This certainly happens in the traditional finance world as well.
But in TradFi there are ways to reverse these transactions. SWIFT has a built-in recall mechanism, which has saved victims of various forms of wire fraud collectively hundreds of millions of dollars. In the United States, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) acts as a watchdog over the remittance industry and provides consumer protections, such as the right to cancel a money transfer and the right to resolve mistakes. These mechanisms don’t exist in crypto.
As a technicality, one could say parts of crypto have this but only when the wallets are KYC’ed, or follow Know Your Customer rules. For example, Crypto.com sued a woman in Melbourne who was mistakenly refunded $10 million.
SBF weighs in
FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried caught some flak from the libertarian wing of big crypto by suggesting in a policy white paper that there’s a necessity for KYC and respecting the Treasury Department’s sanction wing, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
“Maintaining a blocklist is a good balance: prohibiting illegal transfers and freezing funds associated with financial crimes while otherwise allowing commerce,” SBF wrote. “To be clear, this does not mean that passports and social security numbers are necessary to buy a bagel from 7-11 – but issuances and redemptions of stablecoins should be [Bank Secrecy Act]-level KYC'ed activity.”
SBF sees this as a necessity to integrate crypto into the pools of liquidity worth trillions of dollars in the TradFi market.
Erik Voorhees dismissed this all as tyranny and appeared to have the support of many people behind him.
But dismissing this as tyranny is going to be a nonstarter for people like JPMorgan’s Farooq.
“I can’t foresee people being able to send money across borders if no one checks and no one knows who’s sending money to who, because sooner or later they will be in a money-laundering incident,” he’s quoted as saying. “Those are the very fundamental things that need to be addressed before you even get to systematic issues.”
While a certain degree of sympathy has to be extended to the libertarians because of how laggardly and geriatric regulators have historically been, dismissing the need for some oversight of crypto by calling it “tyranny” invites the industry to establish more regulatory controls.
Yes, rules about securities that stem from court cases that occurred in the 1940s need to be updated. But there have to be rules.
By not speaking the same language as regulators, it’s a ticket to missing out on an opportunity worth trillions of dollars. Farooq and SBF both want to make digital assets mainstream, and know what needs to happen. It's people like Erik Voorhees who are holding things back.
10:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(2:00 UTC) China Trade Balance USD (Oct)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:30 UTC) Japan's Overall Household Spending (YoY) (Sept)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:30 UTC) Australia Westpac Consumer Confidence (Nov)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Pops After October Jobs Report; Coinbase Sees Crypto Headwinds Continuing Into 2023
The U.S. economy added 261,000 jobs in October, while the unemployment rate rose to 3.7%. Ben Emons of Medley Global Advisors joined ""First Mover"" to discuss what the jobs report means for crypto markets. Plus, Coinbase transaction revenue continued to be significantly impacted by macroeconomic and crypto market headwinds. John Todaro of Needham & Co. examined the crypto exchange's latest quarterly results.
Helium, Building Out Mobile Network, Plans to Give Free Trials to Solana Phone Users: Under the agreement, Saga phones sold in the U.S. will get a 30-day free subscription to Helium Mobile.
Litecoin Mining Difficulty Is Hitting New Highs, Foundation Says: The network’s mining difficulty peaked on Friday, indicating increased competition for miner rewards.
Huobi Exchange Users Furious After GALA Holdings are Converted to ‘Meme Token’: The move came after a bug forced a bridging service to relaunch the wrapped version of GALA that trades on Binance Smart Chain, sparking widespread confusion.
US Added 261K Jobs in October, Topping Expectations for 200K: Bitcoin prices are likely to face continuing headwinds as the strong report should keep the Federal Reserve on a tightening path.
MATIC Rally Gathers Speed as Meta Announces Polygon-Powered NFTs, Chart Signals Golden Cross: ""Polygon's MATIC could be a core long position,"" one strategist said.
CBDCs Could Reduce FX Transaction Speeds to 10 Seconds, NY Fed Says: The New York Fed simulated foreign exchange transactions using a distributed ledger to test for improvements over the current system."
250,162,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/market-wrap-solana-plunge-highlights-major-cryptos-day-in-the-red/,Market Wrap: Solana Plunge Highlights Major Cryptos’ Day in the Red,The native token of the Solana protocol recently fell over 6%; bitcoin and ether dropped more modestly as investors await the midterm elections and latest inflation data.,2022-11-07,"Crypto markets spent much of Monday in the red, with Solana’s SOL token among the biggest losers.
SOL, was recently down more than 6% over the past 24 hours amid speculation that it might be entwined in the ongoing drama surrounding Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange and his trading firm, Alameda Research. According to a copy of the Alameda balance sheet seen by CoinDesk, Alameda holds $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.” One theory is that Alameda might try to dump its SOL tokens in a bid to raise fresh liquidity, wrote CoinDesk’s Jocelyn Yang.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin and ether, the two largest cryptos by market capitalization, had a quieter day, falling about 2% and 1%, respectively, over the past 24 hours. BTC remained comfortably over its most recent $20,000 support level after jumping over $21,000 late last week as investors’ looked with hope at signs the U.S. Federal Reserve would scale back from its current diet of hefty, 75 basis point interest rate hikes.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was trading roughly flat.
A day ahead of the U.S. midterm elections, stocks started the week on an up note as the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, which has a strong technology component, rose nearly a percentage point, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) closed up 1.3%.
Safe haven gold joined the crowd in the green, albeit barely, inching up 0.1%. Brent crude oil, a widely watched measure of energy markets, held over $98, the perch it assumed late last week.
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): 1,039.65 −1.6%
● Bitcoin (BTC): $20,685 −2.0%
● Ether (ETH): $1,576 −1.7%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,806.80 +1.0%
● Gold: $1,678 per troy ounce +0.3%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 4.21% +0.1
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
By Glenn Williams Jr
FTT’s $22 price is significant when considering the asset’s trading volume. The Volume Profile Visible Range (VPVR) tool determines an asset’s potential areas of support and resistance. It provides a visual representation of trading volume by price level, and indicates areas of high or low agreement on price.
An asset’s price tends to move slowly in “high volume node” areas, as there is generally sufficient market demand at those particular price levels. Prices often move rapidly through “low volume node” areas and can lead to rapid increases or decreases dependent on market direction.
What this implies for FTX is that if its price cannot be defended at the $22 level, buying demand doesn’t appear again until close to $10.
Read the full technical take by CoinDesk analyst Glenn Williams Jr.
Solana Falls, and Speculation Centers on Links to Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX, Alameda: Solana’s SOL token was one of the biggest losers in digital-asset markets on Monday, falling 4.7% in the past 24 hours. Crypto traders are forming all sorts of theories as to why. Read more here.
LBRY Sold Tokens as Securities, Federal Judge Rules: Crypto startup LBRY violated securities laws by selling its native LBC tokens without registering with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a New Hampshire judge ruled on Monday. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at what financial media “gurus” fail to notice about bitcoin.
Open Interest in FTT Futures Doubles as Binance Moves to Liquidate FTX Token Holdings: Open interest has doubled to $203 million, with bearish bets in demand, as Binance's entry into the FTX-Alameda drama has caused panic among investors.
Here’s What Crypto Traders Expect From the Midterms: Republicans are increasingly confident they will take control of the U.S. Congress and it could be bullish for crypto, according to some analysts and traders.
US Seizes 50K Bitcoins Related to Silk Road Marketplace: The bitcoin, which was obtained in 2012 and which was valued at $3.36 billion when it was discovered in November, is now worth $1.04 billion.
Bitcoin Miner Iris Energy Faces Default Claim on $103M of Equipment Loans: The company has said it will default on the debt Tuesday unless it can reach a restructuring agreement with its lender.
Ethereum Apps Could Soon be Launching on Competitor Solana: Neon Labs is nearing the launch of its long-awaited Ethereum Virtual Machine for Solana.
From NFL to NFTs, Tim Tebow Gets Into the College Game With Solana-Based Platform: The two-time college football national champion and Heisman Trophy winner seeks to capitalize on the athletes' freedom to get endorsement deals.
Stablecoin Issuer Paxos Plans to Hire at Least 130 in Singapore, Bloomberg Reports: Co-founder Rich Teo told Bloomberg the firm is planning a three-year expansion built around Singapore as its hub for growth outside the U.S."
251,60,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/solana-falls-and-speculation-centers-on-links-to-sam-bankman-frieds-ftx-alameda/,"Solana Falls and Speculation Centers on Links to Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX, Alameda","The SOL token fell 4.7% in the past 24 hours, and crypto traders are forming all sorts of theories as to why.",2022-11-07,"Solana’s SOL token was one of the biggest losers in digital-asset markets on Monday, and crypto analysts speculated there might be a connection to the recent drama surrounding Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange and his trading firm, Alameda Research.
One theory is that Alameda might try to dump its SOL tokens in a bid to raise fresh liquidity.
“The large amounts of SOL and Solana ecosystem tokens held by Alameda could get sold off in a worst-case scenario and underline the close links between FTX/Alameda and Solana,” said Riyad Carey, research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko.
The SOL token plunged 4.7% in the past 24 hours.
This week’s kerfuffle in crypto markets has evolved into a full-blown face-off between two of the industry’s biggest titans. It began when Changpeng Zhao, CEO of the rival exchange Binance, tweeted that his firm would sell its holdings of FTX’s exchange token, FTT – a stake reportedly worth more than $500 million. The token happens to be one of the biggest holdings on Alameda’s balance sheet, raising thorny questions about the blurry divisions between Bankman-Fried’s trading firm and the FTX exchange.
The FTT price rebounded after Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison tweeted that the company would happily buy Binance's FTT tokens for $22 each.
So a key question is how Alameda might pay for the FTT tokens if the trading firm were to step up as a buyer of the Binance stake.
SOL is Alameda's second-largest holding, and it also holds significant amounts of SOL ecosystem tokens like MAPS and OXY, according to Carey.
CoinDesk previously reported that a copy of Alameda's balance sheet shows the firm held $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.”
Sean Farrell, head of digital asset strategy at research firm FundStrat, wrote Monday in a note that he expects Binance and Alameda to eventually reach an over-the-counter deal to “move all of Binance's FTT without adversely affecting the prevailing market price.”
It could be that the SOL token is falling because of market pressures entirely unrelated to the FTX-Binance tete-a-tete.
The token spiked as much as 15% on Saturday after Google Cloud tagged the blockchain’s co-founder in a tweet that suggested an important disclosure was underway, before making the formal partnership announcement.
Then, on Sunday, the SOL price tumbled, in what may have been a classic case of “buy the rumor, sell the news,” according to Carey.
There’s also the simple possibility that the token was losing steam after the Solana blockchain’s big Breakpoint conference taking place in Lisbon, Portugal; the event concludes Monday. Such post-conference market fades aren’t out of the ordinary.
Other major crypto assets were also falling on Monday midday: bitcoin (BTC) was trading at around $20,800, down 1.6%, while ether (ETH) was down 0.4% to $1,600 as of press time.
The CoinDesk Market Index was down 0.1%.
Traditional markets edged up as traders prepared for the U.S. midterm elections on Tuesday and the Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation data on Thursday. The Standard and Poor's 500 index was up 0.9%.
BTC has been holding at over $20,000 recently, giving a boost to investor confidence.
“It feels to me like bitcoin did all of its selling off ahead of the market,” Greg King, founder and CEO of asset management firm Osprey FundsOsprey Funds, told CoinDesk TV on Monday. “The market is sort of catching up.”"
252,26,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/ftt-plummets-as-market-fears-possible-alameda-contagion/,FTX Token Plummets on Withdrawal Concerns as Contagion Hits Broader Crypto Markets,"The FTT price has declined nearly 14% over the past 24 hours, with Solana's SOL and Serum's SRM taking losses along with bigger cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and ether.",2022-11-08,"Fears over a withdrawal run from the billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX cryptocurrency exchange sent digital-asset markets into a fresh tailspin on Tuesday, hitting altcoins including the trading venue's own FTT as well as the Solana blockchain's SOL.
In a departure from the stability witnessed earlier in the week, the tremors appeared to spread to bigger cryptocurrencies including bitcoin (BTC), down 4.6% in the past 24 hours, and ether (ETH), down 6.3% – on a day when U.S. stocks were trading higher. In crypto options markets, traders were putting on fresh transactions to protect themselves from further downside. The 162-member CoinDesk Market Index lost 5.2%.
The meltdown sparked eery recollections of the crypto market's dizzying crash earlier this year, which was punctuated by the failures of the Terra blockchain's UST stablecoin, the crypto lender Celsius Network, trading venue Voyager Digital and the investment fund Three Arrows Capital.
The fresh drama was magnified by Bankman-Fried's reputation as one of the most powerful and hitherto successful industry figures, and came just days after none other than Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, CEO of the rival Binance exchange, said he planned to dump its remaining holdings of the FTT tokens.
As of press time the FTT was down nearly 14% over the past 24 hours and 44% over the past seven days, to a price of $18.92. Just days ago, the CEO of Bankman-Fried's trading firm, Alameda Research, had tweeted that the outfit stood ready to buy the Binance holdings at $22 each.
Data from CoinGlass shows there continues to be building short bets on FTT as open interest in the crypto-derivatives market has surged 8% during the last hour to a total of $215 million.
The speculation over Bankman-Fried's FTX started after CoinDesk reported last week that a notable portion of Alameda's balance sheet was made up of FTT, which is the FTX exchange's in-house token, and the Solana blockchain's SOL.
Since then, the market has grown concerned about FTX's liquidity. The exchange has faced a massive stablecoin exodus, with $451 million being sent off its main platform during the last week and $15 million being pulled from its U.S. subsidiary, according to Nansen data. Currently, FTX has a balance of $59.2 million USDC and $28.5 million USDT, along with $8.6 million BUSD. FTX US has $41 million USDC, $12.8 million USDT, $39 million PAX, and $11.3 million BUSD available.
Interest rates on FTX's margin lending platform have jumped, with the exchange now paying 10% for USDT compared to a previous lending rate of 5%.
Meanwhile, Binance has seen an inflow of $411 million in stablecoins over the last week, with a current balance of $26.7 billion.
While users have reported some delays on fiat currency withdrawals, FTX says that it is working through the backlog and they are still being processed. Bankman-Fried, who serves as FTX's CEO, took to Twitter early Monday to say the exchange was far from insolvent and there is no risk of withdrawals being halted.
Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao has previously said that he plans to liquidate any remaining FTT on Binance's books, but on-chain data suggests that this hasn't yet begun.
FTT is currently trading down 19% at $17.93. SOL is lower by 17% and Serum's SRM token is down 10%. The action is spilling over into bitcoin (BTC) as well, which is down 5.6% to $19,650.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 04:15 UTC): Updated with additional context and information."
253,1081,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/08/crypto-has-prepared-for-divided-us-government-republican-rise/,"Crypto Has Prepared for Divided US Government, Republican Rise","A partisan mess on Capitol Hill may not be a bad thing for the crypto industry, which has friends on both sides of the aisle and legislative efforts that are – so far – bipartisan.",2022-11-08,"As U.S. voters head to the polls Tuesday, the crypto industry is confident that it’s positioned itself well for the newly divided government expected to emerge when the votes are tallied.
Legislation that could finally establish U.S. oversight of digital assets is already bipartisan, and the industry’s funding of political campaigns has supported a number of well-placed Republicans.
“Split control of the federal government could bode well for future crypto policy and regulation,” said Kristin Smith, executive director of the Blockchain Association in Washington. “In the current Congress, there is growing bipartisan collaboration on major legislation, and we would expect that trend to continue, and likely accelerate, if control changes hands.”
However, while Republicans are more likely to emphasize a need for the U.S. to allow for crypto innovation and are less rigid about financial rules, taking over Congress doesn’t have an immediate impact on how cryptocurrencies will fare in future regulations. The heads of U.S. regulatory agencies remain Democratic appointees, and lawmakers still have a Democratic gatekeeper in President Joe Biden, who needs to sign off on any new laws.
“For the next couple of years, anything that goes through Congress will have to get the president's signature,” said Ian Katz, a managing director at Capital Alpha Partners, a Washington, D.C.-based research firm. “So while Republicans may provide a generally more sympathetic audience for crypto, that doesn't mean party time for crypto if the Republicans get control of Congress.”
If these midterm elections see a red wave of incoming Republicans, the major visible switch would be in the leadership of the chambers and the committees. The majority party tends to control the agenda for what issues come up and how. And when the administration is led by one party and Congress by another, it typically ignites an open warfare of committee hearings that relentlessly pummel the executive branch.
Crypto observers who have already stoked a dislike for Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Gary Gensler, for instance, will likely be watching him targeted by Republican lawmakers eager to shred his agency’s performance.
“In a split government, the checks and balances intended by our founding fathers are really in play, and you often see congressional committee chairs try to exert their influence and authority over regulatory agencies and regulated industries,” said Keith Noreika, an executive vice president at Patomak Global Partners who ran the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for a time.
A number of bills have been winding their way through Congress this year, but two are farther along than the others: an effort to oversee stablecoins and legislation that would empower the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to regulate the trading of certain tokens including bitcoin. Both are immersed in bipartisan negotiations, and they’re expected to provide the foundations of similar efforts in the new Congress next year.
Read More: Here’s What Crypto Traders Expect From the Midterms
If Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) moves from ranking Republican on the House Financial Services Committee to become its chairman, he could pick right back up where he left off on stablecoin oversight this year. He said the committee leaders have already agreed on much of the bill.
The CFTC legislation is primarily an effort in the Senate Agriculture Committee – a product of common ground between Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and top Republican Sen. John Boozman (R-Ark.) Though it doesn’t settle some of the uncertainties over which tokens should be regulated as commodities and which as securities, the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act (DCCPA) has drawn some industry support, including from FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried. However, the industry has also been wary of how it might affect decentralized finance (DeFi), so negotiations have continued.
The current Democrat-dominated government already provided cryptocurrency lobbyists some practice for navigating a partisan divide, because it was – for practical purposes – a majority in name only. The Democrat’s control of the Senate was so tenuous that legislation usually needed bipartisan support.
If Republicans McHenry and Boozman end up taking over their committees, crypto industry campaign donations have benefited both of them this year. Crypto political action committees (PACs) have given tens of millions to candidates from both parties. For several incoming freshman lawmakers, industry support will have been key to their victories.
In the House, the GOP is expected to increase its number of seats well over the 218 that would secure a majority. Republicans only need to win a handful of the many congressional races up for grabs, and most analysts have been predicting a majority well over 220. One estimate from BTIG this week puts the likely gain at 22.
In the Senate, Republicans need only shift one seat to their side, and polling has indicated they may have a slight advantage to get that, according to the latest analysis at fivethirtyeight.com. The question is expected to be answered by the races in Georgia, Nevada and Pennsylvania.
Another tight race is Arizona’s contest between Sen. Mark Kelly (D-Ariz.) and Republican challenger Blake Masters, one of the crypto industry’s greatest supporters in the midterms. So far, polling has suggested Kelly will win by a very narrow margin."
254,33,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/bitcoin-ether-slide-as-protective-puts-draw-demand-amid-sell-off-in-ftx-token/,"Bitcoin, Ether Slide as Protective Puts Draw Demand Amid Sell-Off in FTX's Token","Options market tied to bitcoin and ether shows renewed bias for puts, perhaps a sign of investor fears the FTX-Alameda drama may bring another market-wide crash.",2022-11-08,"Crypto market leaders bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) shed their relative calm and faced selling pressure early Tuesday as FTT, the native token of cryptocurrency exchange FTX, nosedived to 21-month lows on lingering concerns regarding trading firm Alameda's balance sheet.
At 04:30 UTC, bitcoin traded 4.3% lower on the day at $19,700, while ether changed hands at $1,480, representing a 5.5% decline, CoinDesk data show. FTX's FTT token tanked 20% to $17, the lowest since February 2021, extending the past week's 13% slide.
Options data showed renewed demand for bearish put options tied to bitcoin and ether. The bearish shift in sentiment perhaps reflects investor fears that the ongoing FTX-Alameda drama may lead to Terra-like crypto collapse.
""We have seen renewed demand for downside protection after the the negative news flow related to FTT,"" Patrick Chu, director of institutional sales and trading at over-the-counter crypto derivatives tech platform Paradigm, told CoinDesk.
""Short dated skew in particular has moved in favor of puts as we have seen downside protection in both BTC and ETH with strong demand for end November/December expiries,"" Chu added.
A call option gives the purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to buy the underlying asset at a predetermined price on or before a specific date. A put option gives the right to sell. Options skew measures prices for bullish calls relative to bearish puts.
The controversy surrounding Alameda's balance sheet began last week after CoinDesk reported that the trading firm holds large amounts locked or illiquid FTX tokens, painting the two entities unusually close to each other. (Alameda and FTX are sibling companies).
Since then, FTT has crashed by 40% and the exchange has seen large withdrawals at an alarming rate.
""Much of the anxiety comes from FTX’s app (formerly Blockfolio), which has a generous 'earn program' of about ~5% up to $100K. As expected, a lot of capital is being withdrawn, which some observers try to frame as a 'bank run'. So far, I have no indication that investors are having trouble withdrawing cash,"" Ilan Solot, co-head of digital assets at London-based Marex Solutions, said in an email.
""Moreover, a 5% rate (not far from U.S. rates) is not as egregious as what Anchor [a crypto lending protocol] or Celsius [Network] were doing. But we don’t have any visibility on the repurposing of funds or liquidity mismatches (which doesn’t mean they don’t exist),"" Solot added.
Both short-term and long-term bitcoin call-put skews have turned lower from zero this week. The one-week skew has dropped from -1% to -12%, the lowest since late September, according to digital assets data provider Amberdata.
In other words, puts are back in demand.
A similar pattern is observed in ether call-put skews.
The one-week ether call-put skew has dropped to nearly -20%, indicating strongest bias for bearish puts since mid-September.
Options traders' expectations for price turbulence over the coming week and month have increased. Ether's seven-day implied volatility, or expectations for price volatility, jumped to an annualized 98%, the highest in two months. The one-month gauge ticked higher to a two-week high of 84%.
""The market seems to be panicking, given the fact that LUNA event wasn't that long ago,"" Martin Cheung, an options trader from Pulsar, said, referring the uptick in the implied volatility.
Terra's stablecoin UST and native token LUNA crashed in May, destroying billions of dollars in investor wealth. The crash brought down several lenders, including Celsius.
According to Solot, FTX and Alameda's issues are unlikely to crash the market.
""FTX is a systemically important player in the crypto ecosystem, so any trouble or loss of confidence – even if temporary – will have an outsized impact,"" Solot said.
""That said, there’s a lot less leverage in the system right now, so there’s a greater chance any trouble can be contained more easily – or at least that losses will be concentrated instead of widespread. Indeed, the spill over to other tokens has been very mild so far,"" Solot noted.
I just bought some $15k strike $BTC puts.
UPDATE: (Nov. 8, 15:25 UTC): Adds tweet from Arthur Hayes."
255,85,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/08/ftx-reaches-deal-with-binance-amid-liquidity-scare-sam-bankman-fried-says/,FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange,"The two crypto exchange giants signed a non-binding letter of intent, Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao confirmed on Twitter.",2022-11-08,"Binance agreed to buy rival cryptocurrency exchange FTX, a stunning outcome that followed days of speculation – spurred by a CoinDesk article on Nov. 2 – that FTX and corporate sibling Alameda Research faced a liquidity crisis.
The deal – which, like so much else during almost a week of drama, was revealed in tweets – unites two powerhouses of crypto trading. Early this year, FTX was valued at $32 billion, and Binance is the biggest crypto exchange by volume. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed, though FTX's U.S. division – a separate entity known as FTX US – is not included in the deal.
""Things have come full circle, and FTX.com’s first, and last, investors are the same: we have come to an agreement on a strategic transaction with Binance for FTX.com (pending DD etc.),"" FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried tweeted Tuesday, referring to due diligence.
1) Hey all: I have a few announcements to make.

Things have come full circle, and https://t.co/DWPOotRHcX’s first, and last, investors are the same: we have come to an agreement on a strategic transaction with Binance for https://t.co/DWPOotRHcX (pending DD etc.).
Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao also took to Twitter to confirm the deal, saying the two exchanges signed a non-binding letter of intent. Bankman-Fried and Zhao both said that a full due diligence process would be underway in the next couple of days.
This afternoon, FTX asked for our help. There is a significant liquidity crunch. To protect users, we signed a non-binding LOI, intending to fully acquire https://t.co/BGtFlCmLXB and help cover the liquidity crunch. We will be conducting a full DD in the coming days.
The deal comes in the wake of a CoinDesk scoop last week that triggered concern that the balance sheet of FTX's corporate sibling, Alameda Research, was too heavily reliant on illiquid tokens including FTX's own FTT. Both FTX and Alameda were founded and are largely owned by Bankman-Fried.
Read More: The Story of Sam Bankman-Fried’s Backroom Deal With Binance’s CZ
Some observers interpreted the story as meaning Alameda's finances – and therefore maybe FTX's – were not as solid as it had been thought.
Then Binance's CEO amped up the pressure on Sunday by saying he planned to sell his holdings of FTX's FTT token, since the CoinDesk story had shown that much of Alameda's balance sheet was made up of FTT. ""Liquidating our FTT is just post-exit risk management, learning from LUNA,"" he tweeted. ""We gave support before, but we won't pretend to make love after divorce. We are not against anyone. But we won't support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs. Onwards.""
Read More: FTX, Binance Deal Draws Antitrust Concern
CZ's decision pushed down FTT's price. Alameda's CEO, Caroline Ellison, then tweeted on Sunday the company would buy all of Binance's FTT tokens for $22 each in order minimize the impact on prices.
The situation worsened early Tuesday as FTX customers struggled to withdraw money from FTX. Dozens of customers complained in FTX’s Telegram group and on Twitter about difficulties they experienced. Roadblocks to pulling money out presaged several other crypto company failures in 2022.
Following the deal, FTX's FTT token initially rallied but that did not last long; after beginning the day just shy of $20, it was recently around $5.
Read more: Sam Bankman-Fried No Longer a Billionaire After $14.6B Overnight Wipe-out
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 16:40 UTC): Added additional information throughout.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 16:59 UTC): Added additional information throughout.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 17:25 UTC): Updated with info about FTX US and Binance.US in second paragraph.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 21:12 UTC): Add's FTX's $32 billion valuation in second paragraph.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 04:21 UTC): Updates FTT's price in final paragraph."
256,165,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/market-wrap-binanceftx-deal-sends-bitcoin-other-cryptos-spiraling/,"Market Wrap: Binance/FTX Deal Sends Bitcoin, Other Cryptos Spiraling",Crypto prices whipsawed following the announcement that Binance would be purchasing one of its largest rivals.,2022-11-08,"Crypto investors couldn’t make up their minds on Tuesday whether they liked Binance’s proposed purchase of rival FTX.
In the immediate aftermath of the announced deal, they sent bitcoin’s price tumbling well below $20,000, its support of the last two weeks. Hours later, prices were bounding above the threshold. But by the afternoon, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had plummeted under $19,000 for the first time since mid September. BTC was recently trading at about $18,500, down more than 10% over the previous 24 hours and its first time under $19,000 since mid October.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Ether and most major altcoins whipsawed similarly. The second largest crypto in market value was recently changing hands just above $1,300, a more than 15% drop from Monday, same time, and its lowest level in more than two weeks.
The carnage swept up tokens from all parts of the crypto spectrum. FTX’s FTT was trading at just over $5, a more than 75% decline during the past 24 hours. Solana's SOL, which had tumbled Monday on speculation that Bankman-Fried's trading firm, Alameda Research, might have to dump some of its holdings in a bid to raise liquidity, was off over 20%. Binance’s BNB token outperformed the market, but was still down about 4%.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was down a whopping 10%.
“The FTT token will find it very hard if not impossible to recover while SOL and ecosystem tokens are likely to suffer losses too as trust appears to be eroded entirely,” wrote Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, in an email to CoinDesk, although he noted optimistically that “we don’t “expect bitcoin to face an extreme scenario. In fact, it could see increased inflows as market participants withdraw from riskier assets.”
“Either way, the sooner this gets resolved the better it is for the space, especially as it is likely to draw more attention from regulators,” DiPasquale wrote.
As U.S. voters went to the polls for midterm elections, stocks continued their momentum from Monday as the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 rose a few fractions of a percentage point, while the the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was up 1%.
Safe haven gold also had another upbeat day, climbing 2.2%.
In an email, Marieke Fament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, called said that ""consolidation is inevitable in crypto's current bear market,” but also saw FTX’s problems and the proposed acquisition as a potential learning experience.
“There's nowhere to hide during crypto winter – and developments such as the acquisition of FTX by Binance underscores the challenges and lack of transparency behind the scenes of some key players –which undermine the reputation of crypto,” Fament said. “Moving forward, the ecosystem is going to learn from these mistakes and hopefully create a stronger sector that puts honesty, transparency and consumer protection at the heart of their businesses.""
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): 923.69 −10.3%
● Bitcoin (BTC): $18,506 −9.7%
● Ether (ETH): $1,319 −15.2%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,828.11 +0.6%
● Gold: $1,716 per troy ounce +2.3%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 4.13% −0.1
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
By Glenn Williams Jr
Binance’s mega-deal to buy rival FTX has raised lots of questions among investors, few of them with easy answers. Price fluctuations have been difficult to pinpoint on calm news days, and the blockbuster deal announced Tuesday threatens to roil markets well beyond the volatility of the last few hours.
In a surprising turn of events, Binance is fully acquiring FTX. The two entities entered a non-bonding letter of intent (LOI), to help FTX weather an apparent liquidity crunch.
Because the LOI is non-binding, Binance can withdraw from the deal at any time. The world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume will be conducting due diligence on FTX over the coming days.
Crypto prices sank, soared and then sank again.
Read the full technical take by CoinDesk analyst Glenn Williams Jr.
FTX Token Falls 80% Despite Binance Bailout as Alameda Contagion Spreads to Bitcoin: CoinDesk reported last week that Alameda Research's balance sheet is loaded with highly illiquid FTX exchange's FTT tokens, and is also a big holder of SOL tokens. FTT token's crash theoretically could wipe out billions from Alameda's balance sheet, deepening its financial woes, according to an analyst. Read more here.
Alameda Thanked for ‘Prompt Response’ in Transferring $37M of BitDAO Tokens: Alameda Research holds 100 million BIT tokens acquired in November last year by swapping 3.36 million FTX exchange's FTT tokens. The token swap deal required each party to hold tokens for at least three years. The community behind BitDAO earlier feared that Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto trading firm, Alameda Research, might liquidate some of its token holdings as speculation sends prices plunging for the related FTT tokens. Read more here.
FTX's Bitcoin Balance Plunges to Just One: Roughly 20,000 bitcoin have been pulled from the crypto exchange in the past 24 hours, according to data from Coinglass.
Coinbase Statement Says No Exposure to FTT Token and Alameda, Minor Deposits at FTX: The publicly traded crypto exchange sought to reassure customers and investors during panicky conditions on Tuesday.
'Pharma Bro' Martin Shkreli to LUNA's Do Kwon: 'Jail Is Not That Bad': The crypto villians discussed the impending FTX-Binance deal on the UpOnly podcast on Tuesday.
Crypto Has Prepared for Divided US Government, Republican Rise: A partisan mess on Capitol Hill may not be a bad thing for the crypto industry, which has friends on both sides of the aisle and legislative efforts that are – so far – bipartisan.
Crypto Venture Capital Investment Slowed Further in October: JPMorgan: As the bear market persists, the current pace of capital flows has slowed to less than one-third of 2021 levels.
US Treasury Adds to Tornado Cash Sanctions With North Korea WMD Allegations: The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) first added Tornado Cash to its sanctions list in August.
Japan Mobile-Phone Operator NTT Docomo to Invest $4B Into Web3: The operator will collaborate with Astar Foundation and Accenture to speed up Web 3 adoption in the country."
257,200,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/crypto-markets-take-a-wild-ride-following-surprise-binanceftx-deal/,Crypto Markets Take a Wild Ride Following Surprise Binance/FTX Deal,Investors are seeking answers to a multitude of questions about the mega deal involving the two crypto exchanges. Will price volatility continue beyond Tuesday?,2022-11-08,"Questions.
Binance’s mega-deal to buy rival FTX has raised lots of questions among investors, few of them with easy answers. Price fluctuations have been difficult to pinpoint on calm news days, and the blockbuster deal announced Tuesday threatens to roil markets well beyond the volatility of the last few hours.
First of all, here’s what we know with certainty.
In a surprising turn of events, Binance is fully acquiring FTX. The two entities entered a non-binding letter of intent (LOI), to help FTX weather an apparent liquidity crunch.
Because the LOI is non-binding, Binance can withdraw from the deal at any time. The world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume will be conducting due diligence on FTX over the coming days.
Crypto prices sank, soared and then sank again.
Now for the most pressing questions, although the short list below is hardly exhaustive.
1. Did an exchange the size of FTX really have to sell?
As recently as Monday, CEO Sam Bankman-Fried was assuring his 860,000 Twitter followers that “all assets” were fine. Hours earlier, Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison was offering to buy Binance’s supply of FTX’s FTT tokens. The reversal of fortunes was mind numbingly fast. But balance sheet problems – an overabundance of FTT – with Alameda Research, the trading firm that is part of Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, exposed FTX to liquidity problems that prompted the sudden sale. Too much of FTX’s net equity consisted of its own FTT token, raising concerns among some crypto observers as CoinDesk reported.
2. What happens to crypto asset prices?
FTX’s problems stem from the all-too-familiar cocktail of leverage and liquidity, particularly when there’s too much of one and not enough of the other.
FTX’s “Earn” program offered users the ability to earn as much as 8% on deposits of bitcoin, ether and other assets.
The spread between “earn” and prevailing risk-free rates imply the use of leverage and risk to create surplus yield. But this combination can become increasingly problematic if an entity must meet increases in user withdrawals. That appears to be exactly what FTX was facing.
BTC balances on FTX have declined from 20,000 on Nov. 2 to a single bitcoin today.
Should crypto investors be wary or hopeful? The individual or entity who speaks with the most confidence on price direction likely deserves the highest level of skepticism.
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) prices have been whipsawing on Tuesday – crypto markets at their best or worst, depending on your perspective. Following the announcement, BTC and ETH rose 4.33% and 5.7% respectively, only to decline 5% and 6.43% in the following hour. Recently, BTC and ETH were down 8% and 12%
Both moves came with higher-than-average volume implying that bulls and bears have conviction. Technical indicators are changing by the hour, so prudent investors will wait patiently without reading too much into any of them.
But these investors will also be closely tracking BTC and ETH to see if their prices fall below $18,100 and $1,300 respectively, thresholds when trading volume for those assets has historically declined.
3. Will Alameda be forced to liquidate assets?
While Binance has acquired FTX, it appears that Alameda will remain a separate entity. Alameda’s apparent insolvency issues may force the company to liquidate part of its holdings, placing downward pressure on specific assets that will then ripple through the wider crypto market. BTC and ETH could potentially be impacted, but other assets such as SOL, and SRM could reportedly come under pressure as well.
4. Will Binance follow through?
Maybe this should have been the first question. Firms have been known to back out of deals. Elon Musk most recently tried to walk away from his purchase of the social media platform Twitter before he said yes again, albeit under legal duress. His massive job cuts and questionable early steps as Twitter owner suggest he might be regretting his commitment and the debt with which he must now wrestle.
Certainly Binance is under no obligation to consummate the acquisition if it finds issues with FTX that make senior management uncomfortable. The due diligence in the coming weeks will reveal more.
5. Will regulators allow the deal to close?
Questions have already arisen, regarding whether the deal would violate anti-trust laws. Regulators worldwide have the power to block major mergers if they fear they would limit market choice, and also have strict laws against anti-competitive behavior. Binance is the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume, while FTX is within the top five, according to data site CoinGecko.
Stay tuned."
258,13,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/abracadabras-mim-stablecoin-briefly-lost-dollar-peg-as-ftxs-ftt-token-tanked/,Abracadabra's MIM Stablecoin Briefly Lost Dollar Peg as FTX's FTT Token Tanked,"FTT is the largest collateral backing MIM, accounting for 33% of the total collateral locked in Abracadabra's ""cauldrons.""",2022-11-08,"Decentralized platform Abracadabra.money's magic internet money (MIM), a U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin, dropped below $1 early Tuesday as crypto exchange FTX's native token FTT tanked.
MIM briefly fell to as low as 95 cents during the early Asian hours, hitting the lowest since at least Terra's crash in May, according to data source CoinGecko.
FTT is the largest collateral backing MIM, accounting for 33% of the total locked in Abracadabra's ""cauldrons,"" according to the official Abracadabra's website.
Cauldrons allow users to borrow MIM using another asset as collateral. Each cauldron is collateral specific.
""FTT is the single largest collateral asset for MIM with total value locked now standing at $120 million. The liquidation price for FTT is $6.76 (-61% from current levels),"" Lewis Harland, a portfolio manager at Decentral Park Capital told CoinDesk.
FTT dropped below $22, an offer price suggested by FTX's sister concern and trading firm Alameda's CEO Caroline Ellison to Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao on Sunday. The token went on to hit a 21-month low of $15 on Alameda contagion fears.
At press time, FTT was changing hands at $17.20 while MIM traded at around 99 cents.
""FTT is the largest collateral asset for MIM, so FTT decline is not great news for Abracadabra,"" Pseudonymous DeFi researcher @DefiIgnas tweeted."
259,206,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/08/the-story-of-sam-bankman-frieds-backroom-deal-with-binances-cz/,The Story of Sam Bankman-Fried’s Backroom Deal With Binance’s CZ,"Binance, after exacerbating a bank run on rival crypto exchange FTX, offered to buy out the jewel in SBF's crown.",2022-11-08,"We may never know how close Sam Bankman-Fried’s (SBF) crypto empire came to collapse, or the collateral damage that would have caused for the industry, but we do know the principal risks at play. And sadly, it’s the same issues Bitcoin was created over a decade ago to solve: financial self-dealing, human hubris and untransparent markets.
What just happened: Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume, has agreed to buy a competitor it had initially nurtured and then almost tanked, FTX. Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao confirmed the deal on Twitter, saying the two exchanges signed a non-binding letter of intent.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The deal, still subject to due diligence processes and not completed, is a stopgap measure to save SBF’s crypto exchange from insolvency. It will likely calm markets that had been rocked by a public rift between two crypto titans so well known as to go simply by their initials.
This is a meteoric fall for SBF – the once-beloved poster boy of crypto who plastered his exchange’s name across stadiums and posed for glossy magazine spreads – who just months ago was touted as the “J.P. Morgan” of crypto for his efforts in backstopping bankrupt blockchain businesses like BlockFi.
""Things have come full circle, and FTX.com’s first, and last, investors are the same: we have come to an agreement on a strategic transaction with Binance for FTX.com (pending DD etc.),"" Bankman-Fried tweeted Tuesday, using shorthand for “due diligence.”
Keeping with the full circle motif, it’s worth noting SBF always saw blockchain more as a means to an end. He entered crypto after a few years as a Jane Street quant, with the stated aim of making as much money to gain as much influence as possible. That would be a fine mentality in crypto had SBF any apparent love of the tools and protocols that made him rich.
Instead, SBF, a political mega-donor who has spent $50 million during the past U.S. election cycle, has used his influence to push for regulations that ruffled his customers and competitors’ feathers. He was a vocal proponent of the DCCPA bill that would create a brokerage-like licensing system for decentralized finance and argued against financial privacy.
That’s what he said in public. For CZ, the bigger concern was what was said behind closed doors, “[W]e won’t support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs,” the Binance CEO tweeted this weekend. This was CZ’s attempt at being “transparent,” he said, explaining a large transaction of over $500 million FTT tokens to Binance made the day before.
He announced Binance would be selling these tokens into the open market, and drew a worrying comparison to LUNA, another project Binance was early to back that later collapsed after a bank run. CZ was seizing the moment caused by market uncertainty, after Alameda Research’s financials were leaked to CoinDesk.
The links between FTX and its sister firm, the hedge fund Alameda, have historically been unclear beyond that both were founded by SBF. The leaked financial statement showed that the majority of Alameda’s assets were illiquid or locked altcoins – many of which SBF had a stake in including FTT, SOL and SRM (the token from the Serum decentralized exchange Bankman-Fried co-founded).
Read more: Solana Falls and Speculation Centers on Links to Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX, Alameda
“Alameda will never be able to cash in a significant portion of FTT to pay back its debts,” Mike Burgersburg, an independent market analyst for Dirty Bubble Media, which was early to call the collapse of Terra/LUNA, said.
Bank runs can be self-fulling prophecies. Although several analysts said it was unlikely that either FTX or Alameda would suffer a margin call, investors began pulling funds, concerned their capital would be locked up in bankruptcy proceedings like with neobanks Celsius Network and Voyager Digital.
Bankman-Fried and Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison did what they could to calm investors’ nerves, offering to mitigate a steep selloff of FTT by offering CZ $22 per token. Ellison said the leaked financial document did not account for another $10 billion Alameda allegedly had, while SBF said that client funds were “safe” and never rehypothecated into other crypto deals.
On-chain analytics showed a more worrying story. Stablecoins and other assets were draining from FTX. Before the Binance buyout was announced today, traders had pulled all the bitcoin FTX had off the platform, according to Coinglass. Alameda was unlocking funds from various DeFi platforms to send ETH to FTX, seemingly unconcerned with steep withdrawal fees.
FTX users began tweeting about delays in moving funds from the platform, while BitDAO asked Alameda to prove that it still held the 100 million BIT tokens the trading firm acquired last November, and began to vote whether to offload the 3.36 million FTT tokens BitDAO earned in that deal.
Throughout this process, industry commentators chided SBF for the exchange’s lack of transparency and called for him to show proof of reserves for both FTX and Alameda. “It’s not much to ask, critics note, given SBF’s recent grandstanding about the need for more regulation and better governance in crypto,” Fortune’s Jeff John Roberts wrote.
Yesterday, it became clear that Binance would reject SBF’s offers to sell its FTT tokens over-the-counter to minimize the sell-off. Instead, it would hold these assets – the fruit of what CZ called a “divorce” – like a Sword of Damocles. Bellwether cryptos like BTC and ETH, trading sideways yesterday, began to slip in overnight trading.
It was clear the contagion would be severe if SBF’s empire fell. Crypto is tied-up in intricate knots, and once it frays the whole ecosystem can unravel – like after the collapse of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. A stablecoin called magic internet money (MIM), capitalized primarily with FTT, lost its peg to the dollar.
See also: Binance CEO Zhao Considering Buying Banks: Report
At least with open financial systems like MIM investors knew at what price they would be liquidated. FTX is a blackbox, and people only have the information SBF chose to reveal. Many began to read Bankman-Fried’s retweets of unconfirmed airdrops for FTX users that kept their capital on the exchange as signs of desperation.
“[R]egardless of how it ends, it’s another blow against the industry (and financial institutions in general) simply for a lack of voluntary transparency, but it’s another giant check mark for the transparency of blockchain data and the skilled researchers trained to uncover, read and interpret this data,” Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at crypto hedge fund Arca, said.
And so, we’re back at the beginning. It should come as no relief that SBF and CZ were apparently able to come to terms. It’s just another backroom deal."
260,35,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/ftx-token-falls-80-despite-binance-bailout-as-alameda-contagion-spreads-to-bitcoin/,FTX Token Falls 80% Despite Binance Bailout as Alameda Contagion Spreads to Bitcoin,"FTT token's crash theoretically could wipe out billions from Alameda's balance sheet, deepening its financial woes, according to an analyst. Bitcoin fell to a 23-month low.",2022-11-08,"The FTX's exchange token, FTT, went into free fall Tuesday even after the company got a lifeline from larger rival Binance, as fears mounted over the crypto trading firm Alameda Research's financial woes, fueling what appeared to be contagion driving down prices broadly across digital asset markets.
Both Alameda and FTX are part of the billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's now-fast-dwindling crypto empire.
FTT fell to $4, down more than 80% over the past 24 hours. SOL, the native token of the Solana blockchain, fell to $21 from $30. At press time, FTT trades at $5.56 and SOL changes hands at $23.90.
Broader crypto markets, which mounted a short-lived recovery after the bailout announcement, quickly lost steam and turned sharply lower. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which tracks 162 cryptocurrencies, fell 8% in the last 24 hours. Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, tumbled to $17,114 on the Bitstamp exchange, a 23-month low. The BTC price recovered somewhat to $18,400 but was still down 12% on the day.
Among the 500 digital assets in CoinDesk's Digital Asset Classification Standard, some 95% were lower over the past 24 hours.
CoinDesk reported last week that Alameda Research's balance sheet is loaded with highly illiquid FTT tokens, and is also a big holder of SOL tokens. Some of these tokens were put up as collateral to take out loans. As of June 30, Alameda held $3.66 billion of “unlocked FTT” tokens and $2.16 billion of FTT as collateral, while its SOL holdings totaled to about $1.2 billion, according to the documents reviewed by CoinDesk.
Investors fear that the giant Binance exchange's bailout of FTX might not extend to Alameda, which is a significant market maker and lender in the crypto space, and that Alameda might face margin calls and be forced to fire-sell assets from its balance sheet to raise liquidity.
2/n - FTX accepting the bail out means that they effectively have a hole. Sure, CZ will bail out FTX. But he's not going to bail out Alameda. @cz_binance pls let me know if im wrong
""There’s a lot more pain to go around as Alameda will be heavily affected by the crash of FTT,"" Sheraz Ahmed, managing partner at Storm Partners, told CoinDesk. ""A multi-billion dollar loss will hurt.”
Alameda's rout could spell trouble for the broader crypto industry, including lenders exposed to the trading firm and to crypto ecosystems which Alameda and FTX have been heavily invested.
""Assuming Alameda doesn’t survive, there could be a good deal of pain, particularly for the Solana ecosystem – in which they were deeply involved – and any institutions that had lent to Alameda,"" Riyad Carey, research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko.
To illustrate just how spectacular the FTT token price's collapse has been, take a look at the following chart of the 10 biggest laggards over the past 24 hours in the ""Transparent CeFi Currency"" industry group, within the CoinDesk DACS. The industry group includes digital assets ""distributed by a central entity and backed by a centralized reserve treasury (i.e., corporation, government, CBDC’s, centralized exchange),"" according to the definition."
261,19,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/first-mover-asia-a-good-week-for-exchange-tokens-except-ftt-solana-continues-falling/,"First Mover Asia: A Good Week for Exchange Tokens, Except FTT; Solana Continues Falling","During the past week, a number of exchange tokens have outperformed bitcoin, including OKX and CRO. FTT is not among them.",2022-11-08,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Solana's SOL token continues its plunge. Bitcoin and ether drop slightly ahead of the U.S. mid-term elections and the latest inflation figures.
Insights: A number of exchange tokens have outperformed bitcoin over the past week. FTT was not among them.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
By James Rubin
As Monday wore on, Solana's SOL token sank deeper and deeper into the red.
The 11th largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently down more than 10% over the past 24 hours as investors speculated about its possible place in the ongoing drama surrounding Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange and his trading firm, Alameda Research. According to a copy of the Alameda balance sheet seen by CoinDesk, Alameda holds $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.” One theory is that Alameda might try to dump its SOL tokens in a bid to raise fresh liquidity, wrote CoinDesk’s Jocelyn Yang.
Early Monday, Bankman-Fried tried to assure FTX users, tweeting: ""A competitor is trying to go after us with false rumors. FTX is fine. Assets are fine.""
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin and ether, the two largest cryptos in market value, had a quieter day, falling about 2% and 1.3%, respectively, over the past 24 hours. BTC remained comfortably over its most recent $20,000 support level after jumping over $21,000 late last week as investors’ looked with hope at signs the U.S. Federal Reserve would scale back from its current diet of hefty, 75 basis point interest rate hikes. ETH continued to hover well above the $1,500 threshold it retook about two weeks ago.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was trading roughly flat.
A day ahead of the U.S. midterm elections, stocks started the week on an up note as the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, which has a strong technology component, rose nearly a percentage point, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) closed up 1.3%. Safe haven gold joined the crowd in the green, albeit barely, inching up 0.1%. Brent crude oil, a widely watched measure of energy markets, held over $98, the perch it assumed late last week.
As CoinDesk reported, Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao tweeted that the exchange plans to its FTT tokens. Although Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison offered to buy back Binance’s entire FTT allocation, the token declined from over $25 to under $22 and is down 2.5% on the day.
In his weekly Two Satoshis newsletter, Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at crypto hedge fund Arca, called the contretemps between the two giants ""another blow against the industry (and financial institutions in general) simply for a lack of voluntary transparency, but it’s another giant check mark for the transparency of blockchain data and the skilled researchers trained to uncover, read, and interpret this data.""
A Good Week for Exchange Tokens Not Called FTT
By Sam Reynolds
Although crypto continues to trade sideways, with bitcoin up only a slight 6% on month, exchange tokens pushed out solid returns — even out performing bitcoin – with the exception of FTX’s FTT.
Exchange tokens offer holders discounts on fees at their respective exchanges. It’s now at $86.5 billion market, according to CoinGecko. There’s a line of thought which holds that these exchange tokens are similar to equity insofar as their price reflects the success of the platform, but there’s also a compelling argument that goes in the other direction.
But during the last week, many exchange tokens even outperformed bitcoin.
Over the past week, OKX’s token, OKB has climbed nearly 35%, fueled by positive news that the exchange has registered itself as a licensed digital assets business in The Bahamas.
Crypto.com’s CRO token has gained just under 10% as the token slowly recovers after the exchange was hit with a double whammy of an almost 91% decline in exchange volume year-over-year and major layoffs.
Binance’s BNB token found itself just slightly outperforming bitcoin. While the exchange itself has had some positive headlines over the last week, like its plan to potentially purchase a bank to bolster its licensing regime, token holders might be concerned that its getting caught in a crossfire between its CEO Changpeng “CZ” Zhao and FTX’s Sam Bankman Fried.
Over the weekend, CZ tweeted that Binance was planning to liquidate its holdings of FTT after CoinDesk revealed that the balance sheet of the FTX-affiliated fund Alameda Research contained a notable amount of FTT.
On Twitter, spectators quickly highlighted pointed out that liquidation of FTT holdings by a stakeholder as large as Binance would likely cause market contagion if Alameda’s balance sheet became illiquid.
Given that the industry just suffered through the collapse of Three Arrows Capital, testing the resilience of Alamada’s balance sheet is something that many in the industry would prefer not to do. Still, as CoinDesk reported on Monday, open interest is building on FTT, as are negative funding rates.
So far, FTT is down around 11% over the last five days. Let’s see what happens next.
Sharm El-Sheikh UN Climate Change Conference 2022 (Egypt)
TOKEN2049 (London)
6:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(10 p.m. UTC) Europe Retail Sales (YoY/Sept)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Tim Tebow on NFT Outlook for Athletes; Binance to Sell Rest of FTX Token Holdings
Heisman Trophy winner and former NFL quarterback Tim Tebow dives deeper into the Web3 game. The co-founder of college sports NFT platform CAMPUS joined ""First Mover"" to explain his latest project. Greg King of Osprey Funds provided crypto markets analysis, and Shayne Coplan of Polymarket shared U.S. midterm elections predictions.
LBRY Sold Tokens as Securities, Federal Judge Rules: The SEC sued LBRY last March on allegations it sold its native LBC token in violation of federal securities laws.
US Seizes 50K Bitcoins Related to Silk Road Marketplace: The bitcoin, which was obtained in 2012 and which was valued at $3.36 billion when it was discovered in November, is now worth $1.04 billion.
In Praise of White-Hat Hackers, but Overreliance Is Foolish: A white hat Nomad exploiter says stronger incentives are needed to reward the good Samaritans who help protocols identify and patch vulnerabilities.
USDC Issuer Circle to Add Solana Support for Euro Coin in 2023: The stablecoin was introduced in June and is backed by a mix of cash and European government debt.
Stablecoin Issuer Paxos Plans to Hire at Least 130 in Singapore, Bloomberg Reports: Co-founder Rich Teo told Bloomberg the firm is planning a three-year expansion built around Singapore as its hub for growth outside the U.S"
262,73,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/binance-exchanges-bnb-token-leads-broad-crypto-rebound-after-ftx-bailout-offer/,Binance Exchange's BNB Token Leads Broad Crypto Rebound After FTX Bailout Offer,"The exchange token used within the Binance trading environment jumped 20%, leading a broad rebound in crypto markets that had been in free fall over acute speculation that the rival FTX exchange might be facing a rapid run on deposits.",2022-11-08,"The giant crypto exchange Binance's in-house token, BNB, led a broad rebound in digital-asset markets on Tuesday after CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao announced a plan to rescue billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's rival FTX exchange from the throes of a blockchain-era deposit run.
The CoinDesk Market Index, which tracks a basket of 162 digital assets, jumped about 4.8% in a little over an hour.
Most cryptocurrencies were plunging earlier in the day as fears spread that FTX might be facing liquidity issues; data showed that the balance of bitcoin on the FTX exchange had plunged by 99% to literally 1 BTC (worth about $20,000).
Crypto markets sharply rebounded after Bankman-Fried, FTX’s CEO, and Zhao – in a Twitter feud over the past few days – tweeted that their firms reached a deal.
Read more: FTX, Binance Deal Draws Antitrust Concern
BNB jumped 20% after the announcement and was changing hands at $362 as of press time. The token has outperformed the broader crypto market, up 11.5% in the last 24 hours. The CMI is still down 1.9% over the past 24 hours.
Bitcoin (BTC) surged above $20,000 and was changing hands around $19,766, down 4.5%, but still up from a low around $19,300 earlier in the day. Ether (ETH) popped 6% in an hour, recently trading around $1,500.
FTX's exchange token, FTT, bounced after the announcement but was still down 34% over the past 24 hours.
Solana's SOL, which had tumbled Monday on speculation that Bankman-Fried's trading firm, Alameda Research, might have to dump some of its holdings in a bid to raise liquidity, was still nursing an 18% loss."
263,23,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/bitdao-community-asks-alameda-for-proof-of-fund-after-tokens-sudden-20-drop-threatens-to-dump-ftt/,BitDAO Community Asks Alameda for Proof of Funds After BIT's Sudden 20% Drop,The BitDAO community has said that it will vote on what to do with its FTT tokens if Alameda fails to provide evidence that it continues to hold BIT tokens as promised. Alameda has promised to provide the evidence soon.,2022-11-08,"CORRECTION (Nov, 8, 06:57 UTC): Corrects headline and story to say BitDAO has suggested voting on the FTT tokens, not threatened Alameda directly. Corrects dek to say BIT token, not FTT.
BitDAO, one of the largest decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO), entered the FTX-Alameda drama on Tuesday after the DAO's native token BIT slipped 20%.
The community behind BITDAO, which is supported by crypto exchange Bybit, Pantera, billionaire Peter Thiel and several other funds, asked trading firm Alameda to prove it continues to hold 100 million BIT tokens the DAO acquired in November of last year by converting 3.36 million FTT tokens. The token swap deal required Alameda to hold tokens for at least three years.
""BitDAO community is questioning the sudden dump of $bit token caused by Alameda dumping and breaching the 3 yr mutual no sale public commitment. Nothing is confirmed but BitDAO community would like to confirm proof of funds from Alameda,"" Bybit's co-founder Ben Zhao tweeted.
BitDAO's fears perhaps stem from speculation that Alameda is liquidating its other token holdings to defend FTX's native cryptocurrency.
FTTT has dropped 40% to $15 in four days. The FTX-Alameda drama began last week after CoinDesk reported that Alameda held large amounts of FTT tokens on its balance sheet. In response, Binance moved to liquidate its FTT holdings, triggering market panic.
BitDAO community also issued a veiled threat to take action, perhaps sell the acquired 3,362,315 FTX tokens, in case Alameda does not offer clarification in 24 hours.
""If this request is not fulfilled, and if sufficient alternative proof or response is not provided, it will be up to the BitDAO community to decide (vote, or any other emergency action) how to deal with the $FTT in the BitDAO Treasury,"" the proposal said.
Responding to Zhou's tweet, Alameda Research's CEO Caroline Ellison said, ""that wasn't us,"" and promised to provide the proof of funds once things calm down. Zhou thanked Ellison for the quick response, saying ""it gives a lot of confidence to the BitDAO community.
Ellison's assurance has certainly calmed market nerves. BIT token has recovered to trade at 38 cents, having dropped over 20% to 26 cents early Tuesday, data from charting platform TradingView show.
BitDAO has also introduced a proposal that will allow the community to monitor and verify that the FTT-BIT swap commitments are being followed.
Based on community feedback, here is a proposal to allow the community to verify and monitor commitments to BIP-4: $BIT x FTT Swap. We hope to work with @AlamedaResearch on this.https://t.co/8SCmUv68kP
UPDATE (Nov, 8, 07:02 UTC): Adds details on BitDAO proposal in the tenth paragraph.
UPDATE (Nov, 8, 06:32 UTC): Adds details on BitDAO's community proposal and response from Zhao."
264,199,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/08/bitcoin-crypto-linked-equities-resume-falling-despite-binanceftx-deal/,"Bitcoin, Crypto-Linked Equities Resume Falling Despite Binance/FTX Deal",Questions about the solvency of FTX were picking up speed on Tuesday morning until Binance announced a non-binding LOI to acquire the crypto exchange.,2022-11-08,"A volatile session has whipsawed bitcoin (BTC) and crypto-related stocks such as Coinbase (COIN) and MicroStrategy (MSTR) after Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao announced the outline of a deal for his exchange to purchase rival FTX.
Read more: FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange
Bitcoin (BTC), which had sunk to the low-$19,000 area this morning, bounced back to $20,500 after the deal was disclosed, but is now down over 12% to around $18,257. Ether (ETH) also fell, by over 15% to $1,340.
Equities showed a similar pattern, with Coinbase falling about 13% and MicroStrategy (dropping over 23%. And video game retailer GameStop fell almost 5%. In September, GameStop said it would be partnering with FTX.US to promote interaction between the gaming and crypto communities.
Brokerage Robinhood (HOOD) – in which FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried owns a 7.6% stake – sunk almost 19%. There were reports circulating in June that FTX was exploring whether it could purchase the company. However, a month later, Robinhood's chief executive officer tried to shut down the speculation, saying he has money to do his own deals.
Read more: Robinhood CEO Shuts Down FTX M&A Chatter, Says He Has Money to Do His Own Deals
Analysts are mixed on the Binance-FTX deal implications for other crypto exchanges and brokerages including Coinbase and Robinhood.
""Although the knee-jerk reaction is that HOOD will be impacted we note that unlike COIN, Robinhood only has 14% of total revenue from trading crypto tokens. It is far more diversified than COIN with equities and options trading,"" Mizuho analyst Dan Dolev said in a research note to clients Tuesday. Dolev added that he doesn't see Coinbase garnering an influx of customers, saying the ""rapid fall from grace of a crypto exchange demonstrates how fickle the crypto industry could be."" Mizuho rates Coinbase with neutral and Robinhood with a buy.
Separately, Needham's John Todaro sees some early positives for Coinbase, saying in a note that ""distractions and withdrawals from FTX could lead to new customer gains for COIN"" near-term. He cautioned, however, that crypto price declines and increased crypto investor concerns could lead to dampened crypto interest. Needham rates Coinbase with a buy rating.
The speculation over Bankman-Fried's FTX started after CoinDesk reported last week that a notable portion of sister company Alameda's balance sheet was made up of FTT, which is the FTX exchange's in-house token.
Regarding what could be next for Sam Bankman-Fried and his team, the firm would ""shift focus to the U.S. market, where they have been spending disproportionate time in the last few months,"" Bernstein analyst Gautam Chhugani said in a note to clients. ""However, they lose the cash machine of the FTX international exchange, which was enabling investments in the U.S. entity,"" Chhugani wrote, adding that a regulatory presence would also lessen.
Read more: FTX Token Plummets as Market Fears Possible Alameda Contagion
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 18:09 UTC): Added analyst commentary on Coinbase and Robinhood.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 19:25 UTC): Added a comment from Bernstein's research team and updates market moves.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 19:51 UTC): Updates market moves.
UPDATE (Nov. 8, 1:29 UTC): Added more details of Robinhood and FTX relationship."
265,27,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/08/coinbase-statement-says-no-exposure-to-ftt-token-and-alameda-minor-deposits-at-ftx/,"Coinbase Says No Exposure to FTT Token and Alameda, Minor Deposits at FTX",The publicly traded crypto exchange sought to reassure customers and investors during panicky conditions on Tuesday.,2022-11-08,"""There can't be a 'run on the bank,' said Coinbase (COIN) in a statement, noting its publicly filed and audited reports show all customer assets as fully backed.
The company said it has minimal exposure to struggling crypto exchange FTX, with just $15 million on deposit there to facilitate business operations and customer trades. Coinbase further said it has no exposure to FTX's token FTT – which has plunged about 80% Tuesday – and no exposure to FTX sister company Alameda Research.
The exchange did have some technical issues Tuesday, acknowledging network connection problems for both web and mobile. It's unclear at this time if those outages have been fixed.
Meanwhile, another crypto exchange, Kraken, is also distanced itself from FTX. ""Kraken has no material exposure to FTX or Alameda. We do not support FTT on either our spot or derivative platforms,"" Kraken's spokesperson, Edith Camargo, told CoinDesk.
Coinbase shares are down about 9% as bitcoin (BTC) plunged below $17,000, to a new 23-month low on Wednesday.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 17:30 UTC): Adds comments from Kraken. Updates share price."
266,307,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/08/ftxs-bitcoin-balance-plunges-to-just-one/,FTX's Bitcoin Balance Plunges to Just 1,"Roughly 20,000 bitcoin have been pulled from the crypto exchange in the past 24 hours, according to data from Coinglass.",2022-11-08,"Amid concerns about the health of FTX, investors have withdrawn bitcoin (BTC) en masse, bringing the crypto exchange's balance to essentially zero.
Data from Coinglass showed a bitcoin balance at FTX of just 1 BTC as of press time. That balance had been about 20,000 for the past month through as recently as 24 hours ago.
Coinglass numbers show total bitcoin balances across all exchanges of just over 2 million, down just marginally over the past 24 hours. The two largest holders are Coinbase Pro and Binance, each with more than 500,000 coins.
Read more: FTX Token Plummets as Market Fears Possible Alameda Contagion"
267,1,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/08/alameda-thanked-for-prompt-response-in-transferring-37m-of-bitdao-tokens/,Alameda Thanked for ‘Prompt Response’ in Transferring $37M of BitDAO Tokens,The community behind BitDAO earlier feared that Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto trading firm might liquidate some of its token holdings as speculation sends prices plunging for the related FTX exchange's FTT tokens.,2022-11-08,"Sam Bankman-Fried’s Alameda Research, the trading firm at the heart of this week’s crypto-industry shakeup, is reportedly making good on at least one promise – adhering to an agreement not to sell tokens associated with the BitDAO blockchain project for at least three years.
BitDAO, one of the largest decentralized autonomous organizations, confirmed Tuesday in a tweet that some 100 million BIT tokens had been transferred into “the original BIP-4 swap wallet” on the Ethereum blockchain, labeled by the website Etherscan as “Alameda Research 25.”
Alameda holds 100 million BIT tokens acquired in November of last year by swapping 3.36 million FTT tokens. The token swap deal required each party to hold tokens for at least three years.
The trading firm has come under scrutiny since CoinDesk reported last week that Alameda’s balance sheet contained billions of dollars of FTT – a cryptocurrency associated with the FTX trading venue, another part of Bankman-Fried’s business empire. The concern was that there were so few players in the FTT market that, if prices for the token started to fall, Alameda likely would get stuck with the holdings.
The giant crypto exchange Binance and FTX inked a landmark deal to combine on Tuesday, but it’s not clear whether the bailout would extend to Alameda, or if the FTT tokens would have any remaining value. Like most exchange tokens, FTT does not confer any ownership rights in the affiliated venue – typically just fee discounts.
Crypto analysts have speculated that Alameda might need to raise liquidity if the price of FTT continues to slide, and that it might seek to sell off crypto holdings that retain value, such as Solana’s SOL tokens.
Coinciding with the recent drama surrounding FTX and Alameda, BitDAO’s native token BIT plunged 20%. BitDAO asked Alameda to prove the firm continues to hold 100 million BIT tokens and even issued a veiled threat to perhaps sell some 3.36 million FTT tokens if Alameda didn’t clarify its intent in 24 hours.
According to data on Etherscan, five transactions from Alamada Research were made on Tuesday. The largest transaction involved 92 million BIT, worth around $34 million, an account on the FTX exchange.
“For community confidence, we recommend that the swapped $BIT and $FTT remain held in our respective on-chain addresses until the end of the no-sale commitment period,” BitDAO tweeted following Alemeda’s swift response.
At press time, the BIT price was still down by 16.9% to 34 cents in the past 24 hours, according to CoinGecko. FTT was down 80.6% to about $4.20."
268,93,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/market-wrap-bitcoin-other-cryptos-continue-to-plummet/,"Market Wrap: Bitcoin, Other Cryptos Continue to Plummet","Crypto prices whipsawed following the announcement that Binance would be purchasing one of its largest rivals, and then said it won't.",2022-11-09,"Crypto markets’ misery seemed boundless on Tuesday amid the ongoing fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s distress.
BTC, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was recently trading at about $16,300, a more than 10% decline to its lowest level in two years. Bitcoin has been swept up in the cryptocurrency industry’s latest crisis, FTX’s liquidity issues, a mass exodus from the exchange and proposed sale to rival Binance that collapsed. On Wednesday, CoinDesk reported that Binance was highly unlikely to follow through on its non-binding letter of intent after reviewing FTX’s internal data and loan commitments. The story was later confirmed to CoinDesk.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
""This is another one of those catalysts,"" said Bob Iaccino, Path Trading Partners co-founder and chief market strategist. ""I wouldn't be surprised if bitcoin went as low as $9,000, which for me, as someone who got out of bitcoin and is waiting to get in again, would actually be a positive.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,150, off roughly 12% to its lowest level since July. Other major cryptocurrencies continued to plunge for a third consecutive day as investors fretted over every development in an industry already rocking from calamities involving crypto giants Terraform Labs, Three Arrows Capital and Celsius Network.
FTX’s FTT token had recently dropped almost 50% a day after plummeting about 80% and was trading at just $2.62. The Solana platform’s SOL token had recently fallen more than 45% to continue its downward momentum of recent days. Last week, CoinDesk reported that a copy of FTX sister company Alameda's balance sheet showed the firm held $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.” Even Binance’s BNB token was down about 15% after outperforming most other cryptos on Tuesday.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was down 8%.
A day after U.S. midterm elections, stocks saw their first red of the week, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 dropping 2.4% and 2%, respectively. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was off 1.9%. Safe haven gold ticked down slightly.
In an email, Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda, wrote that the FTX debacle and its much-admired CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, has shaken an industry often criticized for its lack of guardrails.
“Sam Bankman-Fried was supposed to be bulletproof,” Moya wrote. “SBF was crypto’s ‘White Knight’ and the implosion of FTX means no one is safe. The stabilization period for crypto is over and now we wait to see if other contagion risks emerge.”
By Sage D. Young
Stablecoins
Understanding the volatility stemming from the FTX drama continues with stablecoin outflows. According to Nansen data, in the past seven days starting on Monday, Nov. 7, FTX led all exchanges in stablecoin outflows. Some $451 million worth of stablecoins have left FTX, more than the combined outflows of KuCoin, Crypto.com and OKX.
Specifically, FTX’s holdings of USDC and USDT have nosedived dramatically. Between Friday, Nov. 4, and Tuesday, Nov. 8, Nansen data shows FTX’s USDC holdings dropped about $137 million, roughly 84%, while its USDT holdings dropped from $198 million to $68 million.
According to CryptoQuant, FTX’s stablecoin reserve stands at roughly $156 million currently, down more than 78% since Oct. 24.
Read the full technical take here.
Binance Tops Up Emergency Insurance Fund 'SAFU' to $1B After BNB Volatility: SAFU is an emergency insurance fund that was established by Binance in July 2018 to protect users' funds. When the fund was established, Binance committed a percentage of trading fees to grow it to a sizable level to safeguard users. Binance token-related addresses were topped up with over $700 million in different tokens, while a bitcoin address was funded with $300 million. Read more here.
Solana Blockchain Hit by FTX Tremors as Nearly $800M SOL Tokens Set to Be Unstaked: Solana validators who provide security to the blockchain are set to unlock nearly $800 million worth of their SOL holdings as the end of the token lock-in period known as “Epoch 370” approaches soon. The scheduled-to-be-unlocked SOL tokens represent approximately 15% of its circulating supply. SOL's price recently plunged 45% to less than $14 in the past 24 hours. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at the fall of another risky titan.
Crypto Fund Alameda's Ethereum Wallet Holdings Slumped 50% Since October: On-chain analysis shows Alameda has a $3 million debt spread over several Ethereum addresses.
Who Still Has Exposure to FTX?: Genesis, Wintermute, Multicoin and more – a running list of those with continued exposure to the embattled cryptocurrency exchange.
Crypto.com Halts Solana USDC and USDT Deposits, Withdrawals: The crypto trading platform cited “recent industry events” in an email to users announcing the suspension.
Crypto Exchanges Scramble to Compile 'Proof of Reserves' as FTX Contagion Grips Markets: Nine prominent exchanges said they will publish proof-of-their-reserve holdings in the next month.
Cathie Wood’s ARK Loads Up on COIN Despite FTX Crisis: ARK says it's buying 420,949 COIN shares, which would equate to $21 million, given current market prices.
Inflation Expected to Tick Down in Latest CPI Report: Analysts reporting to FactSet estimate the CPI will drop to 8%, but whether the decline is enough to encourage the Federal Reserve to ratchet back its monetary hawkishness remains unclear.
Vitalik Buterin’s New Ethereum Road Map Takes Aim at MEV and Censorship: Amid a number of new changes, Buterin’s new vision for Ethereum adds a section aimed at curtailing the threats of centralization."
269,96,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/binance-ftx-deal-will-bring-regulatory-scrutiny-on-crypto-exchanges-blockchain-associations-kristin-smith/,Binance-FTX Deal Will Bring Regulatory 'Scrutiny’ on Crypto Exchanges: Blockchain Association’s Kristin Smith,The executive director discusses why FTX’s fall from grace is likely to “open up a more robust” debate surrounding regulation for exchanges in future. U.S. Rep. Jim Himes of Connecticut weighs in.,2022-11-09,"The FTX crypto exchange’s fall from grace could be the catalyst that spurs the U.S. Congress to act on passing more stringent regulation, said Kristin Smith, executive director of the Blockchain Association.
Smith told CoinDesk TV on Wednesday that “lawmakers are very much paying attention” to what happens next with the FTX exchange founded by Sam Bankman-Fried. A CoinDesk scoop revealed the exchange’s corporate sibling, Alameda Research, had substantial amounts of FTT tokens (FTX’s native token) on its balance sheet. The rival Binance exchange started selling its holdings of FTX's tokens. That sparked a panic that has led to a proposed Binance takeover of most of FTX's operations.
“It’s going to invite a lot of scrutiny into how centralized exchanges should be regulated,” Smith said during an appearance on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.” However, she added, “what happened with FTX may not be able to be addressed by U.S. regulation” because units Binance.US and FTX.US are “not part of this deal.”
Read more: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried’s Crypto Empire Blur on His Trading Titan Alameda’s Balance Sheet
Bahamas-based FTX’s survival is likely to depend on whether Binance, the largest exchange in the world by volume, follows through with its letter of intent to buy it. FTX was once the fourth-largest exchange by volume, according to CoinMarketCap data.
Still, if the deal were to happen (though it now appears unlikely), it would mean Binance would dominate upwards of 80% of the global crypto market, raising anti-trust concerns of a foreign-based company owning an exchange with a substantial amount of U.S. retail users.
Smith said FTX’s unsteady future only highlights what has been seen in the past. “Congress is very interested” in finding a way to “regulate the spot markets” by having exchanges register with the Commodities Futures trading Commission (CFTC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), she said.
“As part of that, you could have some sort of proof of reserves and guidelines around what you’re supposed to do with customer deposits,” Smith said, referring to the idea that when users place their crypto on an exchange “there’s an expectation … that it’s not being taken and lent out.”
Read more: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books: Source
“This is going to open up a more robust debate around exchange regulation,” Smith said.
Smith’s views on regulations were echoed by Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.), who was reelected to Congress in Tuesday's elections. Himes told CoinDesk TV that one thing is clear: The government needs to speed up its work on establishing a clear regulatory playing field.
Himes noted, as did Smith, that the acquisition of an exchange with a substantial number of U.S. retailer users by a foreign player raises antitrust concerns.
“Whenever there's a question of Chinese investment in a technologically innovative business, a lot of antennas go up,” said Himes, who was a former banker during the late 1990s. (Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao is Chinese.)
Read more: Sam Bankman-Fried No Longer a Billionaire After $14.6B Wipeout: Bloomberg
Despite crypto playing almost “no role” in how Americans voted, Himes said that “there are plenty of Republicans [and] Democrats who are excited to put forward a regulatory framework that will create a lot of certainty.”
He added that as the FTX-Binance debacle unravels, “Investors in this [crypto] space need to understand that it is an immature and volatile market and they need to be careful.”"
270,100,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/nfl-legend-tom-brady-caught-in-ftx-fallout-risks-losing-complete-strategic-investment/,"NFL Legend Tom Brady Caught in FTX Fallout, Risks Losing Complete Strategic Investment","A tarnished record after coming out of retirement, a divorce and now a wipeout of the strategic investment in FTX. It has been a rough year for the seven-time Super Bowl champion.",2022-11-09,"FTX’s investors and token holders of FTT have had a rough week with the unprecedented series of events that culminated in rival Binance all set to buy the exchange.
But what about National Football League (NFL) star quarterback Tom Brady?
In June 2021, during the bullish days of crypto, the seven-time Super Bowl champion and his then-wife, Gisele Bündchen, said they had closed an equity deal with both FTX.com and FTX.US (legally, separate entities). The deal would see Brady become a brand ambassador for the exchange and Bündchen an environmental and social initiatives adviser.
Brady and Bündchen quickly became prominent faces of FTX, alongside FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried.
""It's an incredibly exciting time in the crypto-world, and Sam and the revolutionary FTX team continue to open my eyes to the endless possibilities,"" said Brady in a press release at the time. ""This particular opportunity showed us the importance of educating people about the power of crypto while simultaneously giving back to our communities and planet.""
Read More: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books: Source
The terms of the equity deal were not disclosed, but in the months following the announcement FTX began work on raising another round with a valuation of $32 billion.
Now that equity is worth significantly less as Binance prepares to take over FTX for pennies on the dollar.
For Brady, this is just another chapter in an already dismal year.
In February, he announced that he’d be retiring from the NFL after not making it to the Super Bowl that year and saying he wanted to spend more time with his wife and family. But weeks after, he retracted his statement and announced he was coming back to the field.
“These past two months I’ve realized my place is still on the field and not in the stands,” Brady tweeted at the time. “That time will come. But it’s not now. I love my teammates, and I love my supportive family. They make it all possible. I’m coming back for my 23rd season in Tampa.”
But Brady’s comeback story was not a remarkable one. So far, he’s off to his worst start since 2002 on the field.
Read More: Crypto Exchanges Scramble to Compile 'Proof-of-Reserves' as FTX Contagion Grips Markets
In early October, Brady, and Bündchen finalized their divorce. Brady’s return to football was reportedly a reason for the pair's split with the couple living apart for the past few months.
Brady’s net worth is estimated to be around $250 million (pre-crypto), with Bündchen’s coming in at $400 million — though it's not sure if that estimate includes her holdings in euros, in which she insisted on being paid in the late 2000s. The euro is down nearly 35% on the greenback since its high of $1.6 on the USD in July 2008.
As for Bankman-Fried, who got Brady into crypto, his net worth has imploded by 94% to $991.5 million, pushing him off the Bloomberg Billionaires index.
FTT is now trading at $4.50, down 72% on the day."
271,103,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/first-mover-americas-ftx-fallout-heats-up/,First Mover Americas: FTX Fallout Heats Up,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 9, 2022.",2022-11-09,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Long crypto traders have liquidated over $700 million in the past 24 hours amid the seismic events involving crypto exchange FTX’s proposed sale to Binance, the world's top crypto exchange by volume. Bitcoin and ether have declined by over 11% and 20% respectively, in the past 24 hours, catching many traders off guard. Meanwhile, futures tracking bitcoin and ether saw $390 million in losses due to liquidations in the past 24 hours. The turbulence emanated from concerns about FTX’s solvency following a report by CoinDesk detailing how its sister firm Alameda Research’s balance sheet was full of FTX's native token, FTT, causing a widespread exodus from the asset.
Crypto exchanges have been scrambling to publish their fund reserves to allay investors’ fears over contagion risks following FTX’s liquidity woes. In the past 24 hours, seven exchanges, including Binance, Huobi and OKX, have said they will publish their audited fund reserves to increase transparency. Binance founder Changpeng Zhao urged industry players to provide “proof of reserves” following the FTX debacle.
Stablecoin heavyweights Circle and Tether distanced themselves from FTX hoping to calm fears about the crypto exchange's sudden decline. Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire said that even though Circle and FTX hold small equity stakes in each other, Circle has never given any loans to FTX or received any FTT as collateral. Tether Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino described Tether's FTX exposure as “0. Null.”
The Collapse of the FTX Empire
NFL Legend Tom Brady Caught in FTX Fallout, Risks Losing Complete Strategic Investment
Midterm Elections 2022: Crypto Live Blog"
272,269,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/staked-sol-tokens-falter-as-solana-traders-stakers-rush-for-exits/,"Staked SOL Tokens Falter as Solana Traders, Stakers Rush for Exits",FTX’s surprise implosion has rattled the infrastructure of Solana staking.,2022-11-09,"The price of staked SOL tokens are fluctuating wildly against their native asset as Solana traders swap the coins rather than gamble on the value of the cratering token they represent.
The largest token issued by Lido (stSOL) was trading 7% below its underlying asset Wednesday even as a competing token from Marinade (mSOL) traded above SOL’s volatile market price. These so-called liquid staking tokens represent the rights to assets currently locked up with Solana validators as well as validator rewards; they usually trade at a slight premium to SOL.
But SOL’s massive correction in the wake of crypto exchange FTX’s surprise implosion has rattled the entire crypto landscape – especially Solana decentralized finance. Lenders and borrowers are facing a monumental crunch of drained asset pools and cratering prices spawned by SOL’s nearly 60% drawdown in a week. Fears that FTX’s sister firm could sell its SOL holdings is only making matters worse.
Read More: Crypto.com Halts Solana USDC and USDT Deposits, Withdrawals
Against this, liquid staking token holders face a decision: hold their derivative asset until they can unlock the underlying asset at the end of the next redemption period (epoch) or sell it now for whatever they can find.
Ricardo J. Méndez, head of growth at Marinade, said staked SOL tokens can prove volatile in markets such as this: “Say, if people want to exit before the end of the epoch and trade where others are [arbitraging] – but if you wait until the end of the epoch, you will get the full value back.”
Read More: Solana Blockchain Hit by FTX Tremors as Nearly $800M SOL Tokens Set to Be Unstaked
Market fears have kicked off a staking exodus from Solana validators. The proof-of-stake network is slated to lose over 15% of staked assets in the coming hours, according to data from Solana Compass. This record “deactivation” of 54 million tokens may have implications for asset prices and even network security.
Even so, the network’s validators aren’t overly concerned, said Brian Long, who runs a Solana staking service.
“Business as usual for the most part,” he said. “The remaining stakeholders will get a higher share of the rewards, so they’ll do better.”"
273,122,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/crypto-finance-firm-galaxy-digital-reveals-768m-exposure-linked-to-ftx/,Crypto Financial Firm Galaxy Digital Reveals $76.8M FTX Exposure as CEO Novogratz Hunkers Down,Galaxy is withdrawing $47.5 million from the crypto exchange.,2022-11-09,"Galaxy Digital (GLXY), the crypto-focused financial-services firm run by Michael Novogratz, said on Wednesday that it has exposure of around $76.8 million of cash and digital assets tied to troubled crypto exchange FTX.
In a statement, the firm also reported a third-quarter net loss of $68.1 million, compared with a $517.9 million profit in the same period last year, and said Damien Vanderwilt will step down as co-president in January.
The near-collapse of FTX, which on Tuesday agreed to sell itself to rival Binance following days of speculation that sister company Alameda Research faced a liquidity crisis, has “put a short term wrench” in the crypto industry, Novogratz said on Galaxy's earnings conference call. The firm is withdrawing $47.5 million of its exposure to the exchange.
While it's important to be “nimble and agile” in coming weeks, the industry has been able to digest multiple events and other scandals and remains resilient, Novogratz said. Crypto will eventually become correlated with the macroeconomy again and not be so event-driven, he said.
“In the short run, people are nervous,” he said, noting that Galaxy remains in a good position to navigate the current environment. Novogratz also called Galaxy’s stock, which fell as much as 22% to C$3.63 on Wednesday, “unbelievably cheap.”
Separately, co-President Chris Ferraro said Galaxy has no exposure to Alameda and no exposure to FTX's exchange token FTT as collateral for its lending business. The company's only direct exposure is through its FTX balances, which is “down dramatically” from a higher level.
Last week, CoinDesk reported that Galaxy Digital was planning to cut at least 20% of its global workforce, according to sources. Novogratz said on Wednesday's call that Galaxy elected to cut about 14%-15% of its headcount, citing costs. The job cuts were tough, but necessary, he added. Novogratz also said Galaxy is boosting its investment across the engineering, security, and legal divisions of the business.
Read more: Crypto Finance Firm Galaxy Digital to Cut One-Fifth of Workforce: Sources
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 16:48 UTC): Adds comments from earnings call, shares.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 19:45 UTC): Updates commentary on job cuts from conference call."
274,124,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/crypto-bank-silvergates-stock-defended-by-analysts-amidst-ftx-concerns/,Crypto Bank Silvergate’s Stock Defended By Analysts Amidst FTX Concerns,"Shares have fallen this week on broader crypto market worries, including the fact that FTX is a customer.",2022-11-09,"Silvergate Capital (SI) was defended by Wall Street analysts after its shares plunged over 20% on Tuesday amid the ongoing concerns about crypto exchange FTX.
Silvergate is a crypto-focused bank with its own Silvergate Exchange Network (SEN), a fiat on-ramp for bitcoin (BTC) markets, with FTX being one of their customers.
Analysts don’t see a lasting hit to Silvergate, however. BTIG analyst Mark Palmer said he spoke on Tuesday to Silvergate's president, Ben Reynolds, who told him that Silvergate neither holds FTT tokens nor lends against them, and that FTX’s challenges have had no direct impact on the company.
“As for the suggestion expressed by some on social media that SI’s SEN Leverage platform could suffer losses due to exposure to FTX, [Reynolds] noted that all of the platform’s loans are significantly overcollateralized by bitcoin that could be liquidated to cover those exposures if necessary,” Palmer wrote in a research note. BTIG has a buy rating and $135 price target on Silvergate.
Separately, Canaccord highlighted that Silvergate doesn’t hold any crypto assets of its own, and should be able to avoid additional risk from the FTX situation.
“In the event that FTX ceases operations or some customers migrate to other exchanges, it is highly likely that Silvergate will still capture that trading volume under its operational umbrella,” Canaccord analyst Joe Vafi told clients in a note. Canaccord has a buy rating and $150 price target on Silvergate.
Silvergate shares are down close to 11% Wednesday morning to $35.26.
Read more: Silvergate Shares Drop as USD Transfers, Digital Deposits Slowed in Q3"
275,125,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/alameda-research-ftx-ventures-websites-go-dark/,"Alameda Research, FTX Ventures Websites Go Dark",The websites were either taken down or made private only a day after news broke that Binance had signed a letter of intent to purchase its cash-strapped rival exchange.,2022-11-09,"Two websites tied to the Bahamas-based crypto exchange FTX have gone dark in the wake of the latter’s liquidity crisis and the subsequent news that it plans to be acquired by rival exchange Binance.
The website for FTX Ventures, the venture capital arm of FTX, and Alameda Research, the quantitative trading firm founded by FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, have both been taken down or made private since Tuesday.
Alameda Research’s CEO Caroline Ellison has not commented publicly on FTX’s crisis and declined to comment on an earlier CoinDesk scoop that much of Alameda’s assets were made up of FTX’s native FTT token, the price of which fell 80% Tuesday.
FTX’s main site, as well as FTX US’s website, remain operational.
Read more: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books: Source"
276,127,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/09/us-regulators-probing-ftx-handling-of-customer-funds-bloomberg/,US Regulators Probing FTX Handling of Customer Funds: Bloomberg,FTX chief Sam Bankman-Fried denied customer funds were being re-invested in a now deleted tweet posted on Monday.,2022-11-09,"U.S. securities and commodities regulators are probing whether FTX.com correctly managed client funds, despite statements this week by the ailing crypto exchange’s CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, that all customer holdings were covered, according to sources cited by Bloomberg Wednesday.
The inquiries by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission date back several months and started as a probe into the crypto lending activities of FTX's U.S. counterpart, FTX US. But the investigations are related to the issues that have caused FTX's current liquidity crisis and look at the relationship between FTX.com, its trading house Alameda Research and FTX US, according to Bloomberg's report.
On Tuesday, rival exchange Binance said it was planning to buy the non-U.S. business of FTX, citing a “severe liquidity crunch,” but there are now indications a review of FTX’s books has led to a change of heart on Binance's part.
In a tweet posted Monday and subsequently deleted, Bankman-Fried said his company “has enough to cover all client holdings.”
“We don’t invest client assets,” he said, in an apparent bid to stave off a bank run. “FTX is fine. Assets are fine.”
Last week, CoinDesk revealed that Alameda and FTX were more closely linked than had been thought, with much of Alameda’s balance sheet assets in the form of FTX’s token, FTT.
Read more: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books: Source"
277,246,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/solana-blockchain-hit-by-ftx-tremors-as-nearly-800m-sol-tokens-set-to-be-unstaked/,Solana Blockchain Hit by FTX Tremors as Nearly $800M SOL Tokens Set to Be Unstaked,The scheduled-to-be-unlocked SOL tokens represent approximately 15% of its circulating supply.,2022-11-09,"The epic comedown of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX crypto exchange and Alameda Research trading firm is making waves in the market for the Solana blockchain’s SOL token – to the point where some investors have apparently become so nervous that they’re demanding back tokens they had “staked” or deposited into the blockchain’s underlying security protocol.
Earlier this week, when concerns started to grow over the state of the two businesses’ finances, crypto market analysts began to speculate that Alameda might need to sell some of its SOL tokens to raise liquidity. The fears sent the SOL price tumbling – as traders rushed to get ahead of the selling pressure.
Now, apparently, the dynamic has risen to another level: Solana validators who provide security to the blockchain are set to unlock nearly $800 million worth of their SOL holdings as the end of the token lock-in period known as “Epoch 370” approaches – in fewer than 13 hours.
Read More: Crypto.com Halts Solana USDC and USDT Deposits, Withdrawals
And analysts are speculating whether investors might dump these soon-to-unlocked SOL tokens as soon as they recover them. SOL's price recently plunged 42% to less than $14 in the past 24 hours.
“A reduction in the amount of SOL staked might indicate that investors are looking to sell all or part of their position,” Sean Farrell, head of digital asset strategy at research firm FundStrat wrote in a note on Tuesday evening following the bailout news. “Due to these factors, we think it is wise to reduce exposure to Solana (SOL) in the immediate term.”
Solana Compass’ blockchain data showed that about 55 million SOL tokens, worth around $776 million, are scheduled to unlock.
There’s about 76% of eligible SOL tokens currently being staked on the blockchain. The scheduled unlocked tokens represent around 15% of the token’s circulating supply in a single unlock.
Read More: Staked SOL Tokens Falter as Solana Traders, Stakers Rush for Exits
Riyad Carey, research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko, told CoinDesk Monday that SOL is Alameda's second-largest holding, and it also holds significant amounts of SOL ecosystem tokens like MAPS and OXY. MAPS was recently down 20% to $0.1, while OXY was down 14% to $0.03, according to CoinGecko.
An “epoch” on the Solana blockchain refers to the time period when staking rewards are earned and then issued. Validators will lock in their stake on the blockchain during this period, which takes about two days, and can choose to unlock the tokens once the epoch is over.
Solana’s price drop accelerated Tuesday as the giant crypto exchange Binance first said it intended to buy FTX and continued Wednesday as CoinDesk reported that Binance was leaning toward not completing the takeover. Last week, CoinDesk reported that a copy of Alameda's balance sheet showed that the firm held $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.”
SOL’s funding rates sharply dropped as low as -4% on Wednesday in anticipation of the unlock, according to Coinglass.
FundStrat’s Farrell said he expected there is an ability for the Solana ecosystem to “eventually recover and remove itself from Alameda’s shadow.”
“But the current liquidity overhang is quite substantial,” he said."
278,781,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/binance-tops-up-emergency-insurance-fund-safu-to-1b-after-bnb-volatility/,Binance Tops Up Emergency Insurance Fund 'SAFU' to $1B After BNB Volatility,"Binance token-related addresses were topped up with over $700 million in different tokens, while a bitcoin address was funded with $300 million.",2022-11-09,"Crypto exchange Binance has topped up its Secure Asset Fund for Users (SAFU) to an equivalent of $1 billion worth of various cryptocurrencies, founder Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, confirmed in a tweet Wednesday morning.
""To adjust to recent price fluctuations, #Binance has topped up the #SAFU insurance fund to $1 billion USD equivalent again,"" Zhao tweeted.
SAFU is an emergency insurance fund that was established by Binance in July 2018 to protect users' funds. When the fund was established, Binance committed a percentage of trading fees to grow it to a sizable level to safeguard users. The fund's value fluctuates based on the market and SAFU fund wallets comprise BNB, BUSD, and BTC.
SAFU addresses hold over $700 million in Binance ecosystem token BNB and Binance USD (BUSD), a stablecoin. The bitcoin address holds over $300 million worth of BTC.
Crypto markets whipsawed in the past 24 hours amid volatile market dynamics due to speculations surrounding prominent exchange FTX's liquidity issues. Speculation surrounding the crypto exchange owned by Sam Bankman-Fried grew so intense that the firm agreed to sell itself to bigger rival Binance - sparking panic among traders."
279,1076,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/09/dubai-presses-for-crypto-companies-to-set-up-shop/,Dubai Presses for Crypto Companies to Set Up Shop,Subtitle not found,2022-11-09,"Dubai is heavily recruiting crypto companies to establish themselves there, but the Middle Eastern nation isn’t quite ready for them. Regulations aren’t clear yet, and getting something as basic as a bank account isn’t a smooth process – at least for now.
Dubai's Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority (VARA), a dedicated regulator for the industry, hasn't yet released a comprehensive regulatory framework that companies can use to create or launch products, but officials have assured local companies that it will come by the end of the year, two people told CoinDesk. The regulator, established just seven months ago, has previously issued some guidelines on marketing and advertising for virtual assets.
Wealth funds in the wider region, the greater United Arab Emirates, are investing in crypto, and a large number of funds already reside in Dubai. Companies are hopeful that VARA will be friendlier to them than other jurisdictions where licensing can be slow. After all, the city is already a center for business tourism. It’s often praised for its low tax rate, its location near talent hubs like India and Pakistan, and the ease of obtaining visas for staff.
The city’s making a play to welcome the crypto industry. It stated its intentions to become a top metaverse economy and create 40,000 virtual jobs. At the same time, the UAE is working to get off the gray list of the Paris-based financial watchdog, the Financial Action Task Force. While it beefs up its anti-money laundering regime, it’s under increased monitoring.
Pre-regulation periods make lawyers wary.
“How can you be optimistic about something you haven’t read?” Irina Heaver, partner of Blockchain and Digital Assets at Keystone Law Dubai said. Before she sees VARA’s regulation and its applications, she’s establishing her clients elsewhere, she said.
Without regulation, less savory elements of the crypto industry have moved to the city, including YouTubers shilling altcoins to their audiences and other projects carrying out scams or rug pulls. The UAE has numerous free zones, which Heaver said makes it “easy to navigate and hide, unfortunately.” She’d like to see the industry cleaned up.
VARA has already handed out MVP (minimum viable product) licenses to some of crypto’s biggest exchanges. Notably, Binance, which has withdrawn applications in other jurisdictions, received an MVP license in September.
The license allows exchanges to offer a ""full suite"" of services, including spot, leverage and futures. There are some excluded services, such as crypto loans offered by exchanges.
The regulator is actively courting companies. James Bernard, founding partner of consultancy JBLV and founding member of the Dubai Global Blockchain Council told CoinDesk that VARA is “inviting some of the top companies around the world to be part of its MVP,” he said, whether that be exchanges, decentralized finance (DeFi) or non-fungible token (NFT) projects. “VARA will start discussion groups that will look to create the best practice in regulations of oversight for each of those verticals,” Bernard said.
VARA was established in a law issued by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Dubai’s ruler.
Industry representatives pointed to the significance of creating a regulatory authority just for virtual assets.
“It’s the first government to regulate crypto under a new regulatory body solely for crypto,” Talal Tabbaa, CEO of CoinMENA said, adding that he was “super bullish” on the regulator.
According to Mohammad Hans Dastmaltchi, chairman of FTX MENA, many other regulators have tried to fit virtual assets into traditional regulatory models.
“[VARA] understands the business, but they’re also extremely tough,” he said.
OKX global government relations officer Tim Byun agrees.
“They really want to hear what the issues are and how they can be solved,” Byun said. For him, “the big elephant in the room for the entire crypto exchanges industry is the FATF travel rule.”
Discussions currently revolve around issues like whether technologies are compatible.
“Not all [virtual asset service providers] are equal,” Byun said. He said that centralized exchanges need to be careful about who they are sending information to. In his view, regulators could take a more proactive stance by starting locally and having exchanges send information between each other.
Crypto companies may find support from the regulator, but it’s taking longer for them to find acceptance with traditional players. Opening bank accounts has proven difficult.
“Some exchanges have obtained non-objection letters saying that they can operate bank accounts, but they have insane restrictions,” Tabbaa said.
Applicants may find they can only open accounts in the local currency of UAE dirham and cannot accept other currencies. That, or they can only serve professional investors and not retail customers.
Banks may be waiting for the central bank to clearly signal that the crypto industry is above-board, Tabbaa said.
Crypto companies know that they are seen as high-risk.
“It is a new industry coming into the region,” said Balsam Danhach, head of operations for FTX MENA. “It’s not regulated. The appetite of a bank to take on that risk is very low.”
Tabbaa said the cost-benefit analysis for banks may not help, pointing to the possible revenues banks can generate compared to the liabilities of serving crypto companies.
Banking infrastructure in the region hasn’t been designed to be friendly for entrepreneurs, according to common industry criticism.
“Any entrepreneur in the region will comment that banking here is bad,” Heaver said. She explained that banking in Dubai is set up for multinationals. The banks are for-profit. They’re not making billions on letters of credit or trade financing arrangements from entrepreneurs.
Heaver knows of a few banks in the region who are looking into selling crypto to their existing clients.
“So why would I facilitate my competitors?” she said of the reticence of banks to service crypto companies.
But change is afoot. Heaver told CoinDesk she is working with a jurisdiction within the region and its main bank to offer bank accounts to crypto companies. If crypto companies meet the criteria set, they may be able to open bank accounts speedily.
Danhach said the central bank in the UAE was in communication with the other banks there.
“If I look at the past nine months, and then I take the past two months, it has been a lot easier to communicate with banks,” he said. He describes it as a work-in-progress."
280,168,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/why-is-crypto-tanking-the-ftx-binance-drama-explained/,Why Is Crypto Tanking: The FTX-Binance Drama Explained,"The world’s largest crypto exchange, Binance reversed course on a plan to bail out competitor FTX in an event that has shocked the crypto industry and is catching the attention of regulators.",2022-11-09,"Binance, the largest crypto exchange in the world by volume, said Tuesday it would purchase FTX, effectively bailing out its main competitor and marking one of the most shocking turns of events in the history of crypto to date.
Late Wednesday, Binance reversed course, saying the issues at FTX were ""beyond our control or ability to help.""
Although the Binance-FTX takeover deal collapsed, the spectacle around it crowned the founder and CEO of Binance, Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, as a kind of crypto king – solidifying his reputation as a brilliant tactician but raising concerns that he might be amassing a disproportionate amount of power in the “decentralized” world of cryptocurrency.
On the other hand, the events severely tainted the reputation and fortunes of Sam “SBF” Bankman-Fried, the 30-year-old altruist investor who was, until recently, considered a kind of crypto wunderkind and destined to profit as handsomely as anyone from the sector’s meteoric rise. According to Bloomberg’s billionaire index, the FTX blowup torpedoed SBF’s net worth by 94%, from $16 billion to below $1 billion.
But Tuesday’s story was more than a spat between two billionaires with initials for nicknames.
The events sparked turmoil across the wider cryptocurrency markets – plunging bitcoin and other currencies to two-year lows. The token for Solana (SOL), a popular competitor to the Ethereum blockchain in which FTX held a major stake, was one of the biggest losers – falling nearly 50% on Wednesday, and down 93% from its 2021 high.
Though FTX’s implosion says nothing about the core technology behind crypto, it will erode trust in the industry and strike ire among regulators eager to tame it.
Confused? You’re not alone. Let’s break down what happened.
Leaked documents last week from CoinDesk, and the market’s reaction to what they contained, pulled the mask off SBF to show that his crypto exchange firm FTX – like so many failed exchanges before it – was at risk of insolvency.
The events revealed the FTX exchange – which allows users to buy and sell crypto – may not have been backing user funds 1:1 behind the scenes.
A bank run – instigated in large part by tweets from CZ – seized on this apparent vulnerability in the SBF empire, driving SBF’s crown jewel into the hands of its main competitor for a possible bailout.
With the deal now apparently not going through, investors are left unsure if they’ll be able to recover their funds.
Documents uncovered last week by CoinDesk showed that Alameda Research – a trading and investment juggernaut founded by SBF – had its finances deeply intertwined with those of FTX.
FTX was supposed to be a separate company from Alameda, but Alameda apparently held a disproportionate amount of its balance sheet in FTX’s exchange token, FTT. That token was illiquid, with Alameda and FTX owning a vast majority of all of the tokens in circulation. Selling them would have meant crashing the price of FTT, meaning their value on Alameda’s balance sheet was likely overstated.
When documents showed that Alameda had been borrowing millions of dollars against FTT, rumors spread across Twitter that FTX was loaning out user funds to Alameda and using its own illiquid FTT token as collateral – essentially printing money so it could lend user funds to itself.
These rumors are far from confirmed, but they were the first inkling for many that deposits in the FTX exchange were not as safe as hoped.
CZ seized on this skepticism in his tweets, stating that Binance would be unwinding its own position in the FTT token over the span of a few months (In another odd footnote to this story, Binance was one of FTX’s largest early investors, meaning it had a huge number of FTT tokens and plenty of power to sway its price).
When CZ announced that he would be dumping FTT onto the market, other holders of the token took note, panic-selling their FTT tokens and racing to withdraw funds from FTX as rumors of insolvency circulated.
FTX was eventually forced to pause user withdrawals on Tuesday morning – causing chaos within the crypto markets. After Coinbase, OKX and perhaps other firms passed on SBF’s requests for rescue capital, he swallowed his pride and went to CZ for help.
Binance’s acquisition of FTX’s non-US operations, which apparently fell apart after Binance took a look at the FTX books, would have plugged a hole in FTX’s balance sheet that may total more than a billion dollars. FTX has a separate U.S. entity, FTX.US, that was not impacted by the acquisition or insolvency.
A Binance purchase of FTX would not have been unlike Bank of America’s buyout of Merrill Lynch during the 2008 financial crisis, which saved the firm from bankruptcy and saved depositors from losing all of their funds although it did require a subsequent bailout from the U.S. government.
Now that the deal has fallen apart, depositors in FTX risk losing some of their funds unless someone else is willing to come to the rescue, which may not happen depending on the size of the hole in FTX’s balance sheet. If a rescue doesn't come, the next step for FTX may be to declare bankruptcy.
FTX was a massive presence in cryptocurrency, sports and other industries. Whatever happens, regulators – once persuaded by SBF’s pro-government posturing – will be sure to take notice, projects (like Solana) linked to the firm will be left on shaky ground, and opponents of centralized crypto companies will be emboldened.
A shocking portrait of hubris and deceit, the collapse of FTX – the impact of which will continue to ripple across the crypto universe in the coming weeks and months – will make SBF a prime target for regulators and skeptics hoping to rid the cryptocurrency industry of its wildest excesses.
FTX's potential insolvency is particularly notable given SBF’s previous reputation among regulators as “one of the good guys.”
A crypto golden boy, SBF was U.S. President Joe Biden’s second-largest donor in the 2020 election, a major donor in the 2022 midterms and a constant presence in Washington, D.C., seeking to provide a friendly face to regulators suspicious of the crypto industry.
When the wider crypto market plunged this past spring following the $60 billion Terra project collapse, SBF fashioned himself as a sort of modern J.P. Morgan, bailing out firms such as BlockFi and Voyager Digital, which went bankrupt after mismanaging user funds behind the scenes (in much a similar fashion, it would turn out, to what FTX may have done).
SBF positioned FTX in contrast to those firms, stating that he – unlike the other big players – acted responsibly with user money, never rehypothecating (or re-using) assets and losing them like with so many other failed projects.
Though FTX’s collapse doesn’t speak to the core technology behind any specific cryptocurrency, it has and will damage trust in the entire industry. Specifically, it will raise questions around the power of centralized platforms – like FTX, Binance, Kraken and Coinbase – that “custody” user funds rather than leave them in users' own crypto wallets.
Should FTX declare bankruptcy, user deposits will remain in limbo. We don’t know exactly what portion of user funds FTX still has on hand, but an old-fashioned bankruptcy could have a catastrophic financial impact on the whole industry, given the number of big-name institutions that have poured money into the FTX platform.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 21:20 UTC): Updated to reflect that Binance has pulled out of the deal to acquire FTX."
281,174,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/stablecoin-issuer-circle-plays-down-ftx-alameda-exposure/,"Stablecoin Heavyweights Circle and Tether Distance Themselves From FTX, Alameda",FTX was one of the investors in Circle's financing round of $440 million last year.,2022-11-09,"Circle and Tether, the firms behind stablecoins USDC and USDT, respectively, distanced themselves from crypto exchange FTX and trading firm Alameda Research as the crypto market grapples with the fallout from FTX's fall from grace.
Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire took to Twitter to explain the firm's relationship with the two companies. Allaire said Circle has never given loans to FTX or Alameda and has never received FTT as collateral. Allaire added that both Circle and FTX hold only a small portion of equity in each other.
gm

1/ Lots of FUD accruing out there, so another thread to help dispel the noise.
Paolo Ardoino, chief technology officer of Tether, was even more direct.
""To be clear: #Tether does not have any exposure to FTX or Alameda. 0. Null,"" he tweeted.
The responses came after FTX said it had agreed to sell itself to rival Binance in a last-ditch effort to avoid collapse. This raised questions around the state of FTX's investment in other crypto firms.
Circle had completed a $440 million financing round in 2021, which involved several investors, including FTX.
The crypto industry's heavyweights have been eager to disassociate themselves from the downfall of FTX. Nasdaq-listed exchange Coinbase (COIN) said Tuesday that it has ""minimal exposure"" to its peer and no exposure to its native token FTT.
""There can't be a 'run on the bank,' Coinbase said in a statement, pointing to its publicly filed and audited reports show how all customer assets are fully backed.
To be clear: #Tether does not have any exposure to FTX or Alameda. 0. Null.
Maybe is time to look elsewhere.
Sorry guys. Try again. https://t.co/1bRNUGrttr
Read more: FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 09:50 UTC): Adds response from Tether, link to the Coinbase story.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 10:16 UTC): Changes headline, first paragraph."
282,202,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/these-four-key-charts-shed-light-on-the-ftx-exchanges-spectacular-collapse/,These Four Key Charts Shed Light on the FTX Exchange's Spectacular Collapse,Nansen’s on-chain metrics suggest several reasons why FTX decided to sell itself to Binance.,2022-11-09,"Speculation surrounding Sam Bankman Fried’s crypto exchange FTX grew so intense that the firm agreed to sell itself to bigger rival Binance. Blockchain data offers a fresh perspective on FTX’s liquidity crunch, illustrating how the drama escalated so quickly.
Comprehending why Binance agreed to buy FTX today means understanding FTX’s liquidity woes.
One of the earliest red flags came from the top 10 addresses by withdrawal volume on FTX. These addresses, which include Nexo, Circle and Jump Trading, have withdrawn a whopping $1.87 billion in the past seven days, Nansen data suggests.
Nexo, a crypto lending platform that has more than five million users worldwide, as stated on the company’s homepage, has withdrawn more than $408 million worth of ether (ETH) from FTX. The blockchain explorer website Etherscan confirms Nansen’s data, with Nexo transferring ETH in large volumes through several transactions. Here are several Nexo transactions out of FTX with values of at least 4,999 ETH: Tx1, Tx2, Tx3, Tx4, Tx5, Tx6, Tx7, Tx8 and Tx9.
Market participants also have withdrawn $121 million USDC from FTX to Circle’s deposit contract address, data from Nansen and Etherscan suggests. (Nansen shows that $1.15 billion USDC has left Coinbase in the past 24 hours, reflecting of users taking tokens off exchanges.)
Data from Coinglass reveals that in the past 24 hours, the number of bitcoins on FTX dropped by 19,941.64 BTC to 36.14 as of press time.
Understanding the volatility stemming from the FTX drama continues with stablecoin outflows. According to Nansen data, in the past seven days starting on Monday, Nov. 7, FTX led all exchanges in stablecoin outflows. Some $451 million worth of stablecoins have left FTX, more than the combined outflows of KuCoin, Crypto.com and OKX.
Specifically, FTX’s holdings of USDC and USDT have nosedived dramatically. Between Friday, Nov. 4 and Tuesday, Nov. 8, Nansen data states that FTX’s USDC holdings dropped about $137 million, roughly 84%, while its USDT holdings dropped from $198 million to $68 million.
According to CryptoQuant, FTX’s stablecoin reserve stands at roughly $156 million currently, down more than 78% since Oct. 24.
FTX’s stablecoin reserve is at its lowest levels in a year. Some market participants have been concerned because one of the initial signs that foreshadowed the collapse of Terra Luna was when UST deposits on the Anchor lending protocol started dropping rapidly.
While the chart shows a large outflow of stablecoins from KuCoin, KuCoin’s net stablecoin change is actually zero. On Nov. 5, Kucoin conducted a simple swap of USDT between the Ethereum and Tron network. 300 million ERC-20 USDT left KuCoin, and 300 million TRC-20 USDT entered into KuCoin. The swap was “because of users’ demand” and was “not a decision related to FTX,” wrote KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu to CoinDesk via Twitter.
Nansen data only shows Ethereum-based stablecoins currently, excluding ones on the Tron network. According to data from CoinMetrics, 34.1 billion USDT is supplied on the Tron network, 1.8 billion more than the USDT supplied on Ethereum.
Additionally, prolific and active cryptocurrency traders have been transferring their wealth out of FTX, according to data from blockchain analytics firm Nansen. Over the last 24 hours, the top 10 withdrawal wallets categorized by Nansen as belonging to “smart money” have removed about $246.6 million worth of tokens.
Nansen considers a wallet to be “smart money” if it meets at least one of several test, including:
It is known to belong to an investment fund
It has made at least $100,000 by providing liquidity to the decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, SushiSwap and Uniswap, excluding so-called impermanent loss
It is in the top 300 addresses ranked by realized profit, considering only on-chain trades that occurred on decentralized exchanges (DEXs)
Jump Trading, which focuses on ecosystem building, quant research and trading, has withdrawn $118 million, more than the next six addresses combined.
Other notable smart money withdrawals include asset management firm Arca and SBF’s trading firm Alameda Research. Alameda Research transferred 92 million BIT (roughly $35 million) out of FTX and into their own address.
The chart above shows the daily price and volume of the FTX exchange’s FTT token, which grants holders a discount on trading fees on the FTX marketplace. Following CoinDesk’s disclosure on Nov. 2, FTT recently slid roughly 79%, with its volume jumping dramatically.
The data in the chart only covers volume on the FTX exchange, so it may not cover the entire FTT trading volume across all exchanges. The chart shows that the recent revelations triggered a flurry of interest in the token and that the drop in FTT was accompanied by significant price discovery.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 17:07:07 UTC): Updated with information in the second chart section about stablecoin outflow by clarifying KuCoin's net stablecoin change, added quotes from KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu elucidating Nansen's capabilities, including a statistic from CoinMetrics, and adding more context to the actual chart."
283,203,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/liquidity-crunch-spreads-to-crypto-lending-as-institutional-borrowers-max-out-credit-pools/,Liquidity Crunch Spreads to Crypto Lending as Institutional Borrowers Max Out Credit Pools,Multiple crypto investment firms received a “warning” label on lending protocol Clearpool for draining almost the maximum amount of credit from their credit pools.,2022-11-09,"Multiple institutional crypto capital firms maxed out their credit pools Tuesday on Clearpool, an uncollateralized lending protocol, as fear on the market mounts that crypto trading firm Alameda Research’s liquidity troubles might spread to crypto lenders.
Amber Group, Auros, and LedgerPrime received a “warning” label on their respective Polygon Permissionless Pools on Clearpool because they reached 99% of the maximum amount of credit available for them on the protocol. Folkvang and Nibbio also received “warning” status on their Ethereum Permissionless Pools.
These loans represent a total of $14.8 million debt, according to Clearpool’s loan dashboard.
By Wednesday, all five firms had paid off all or part of their debt and brought down their credit utilization to normal levels.
The reason behind the sudden high utilization level was that investors withdrew money from the credit pools, lowering the maximum amount of credit available, Amber Group told CoinDesk.
""We have already paid down our outstanding loans on Clearpool due to the large amount of withdrawals,"" Elaine Wang, Amber Group's PR manager, told CoinDesk. ""Our loan size outstanding on Clearpool has been fairly consistent, and low, and when utilization spikes due to larger withdrawals, we will usually pay down a part of the loan to bring it back in line.""
Fears have mounted that Alameda Research’s deepening financial woes might potentially cause a liquidity crunch on the broader digital asset market similar to the Terra blockchain’s downfall or crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital’s blow-up earlier this year. Alameda is the sister company of ailing crypto exchange FTX, which rival exchange giant Binance agreed to bail out earlier Tuesday. Its balance sheet is loaded with FTT tokens that crashed 80% in a day.
Clearpool is a prominent uncollateralized lending protocol, where crypto trading firms often open credit lines and take out loans for their trading operations. Borrowers are not required to pledge assets in exchange, and the loans are secured by their reputation and alleged good financial standing.
In these types of crypto lending pools, interest rates are set dynamically depending on how much capital one takes out from the pool. As a borrower gets closer to the maximum limit of its credit line, the protocol penalizes by increasing the loan’s interest rate from the usual 8-10% to 20-25% annual percentage rate (APR).
On Clearpool, capital providers can withdrew their money anytime from the lending pools, reducing the available credit firms can tap. When withdrawals surge, credit pools' utilization levels may spike.
Taking out the maximum amount of debt from these DeFi protocols is the real-life equivalent of maxing out a credit card, and might signal broader financial distress on the market. In fear of a broader market rout caused by Alameda and FTX, creditors took evasive action and withdrew money available for borrowing, causing a liquidity crunch.
“Crypto lenders feel the credit crunch from the Alameda insolvency,” Walter Teng, vice president of digital assets at research firm Fundstrat, told CoinDesk.
Alameda Research has been a diligent user of decentralized lending protocols, originating hundreds of millions in uncollateralized loans so far. Its current outstanding debt on decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, however, is small compared to earlier this year, meaning fewer investor funds are in danger if Alameda defaults on the loans.
1/ Alameda previously borrowed hundreds of millions of $ from DeFi

Now they are facing a liquidity crunch (or worse), putting their unsecured creditors at risk

Here's what their DeFi debt obligations are now 🧵
The trading firm took out two loans, a total of $5.5 million, from Apollo Capital and Compound Capital Management using Clearpool’s Permissioned Pool, according to Clearpool’s data dashboard.
It also borrowed $7.3 million from a TrueFi lending pool, which is due to mature Dec. 20, per TrueFi’s loan dashboard. The next interest payment is due on Nov. 20.
Lending pools on Maple Finance do not presently have active loans to Alameda, although Alameda had a lending pool that originated $288 million in loans until the spring of 2022.
This year, a series of crypto insolvencies have raised questions whether uncollateralized lending is viable in the young, volatile digital asset market. When an uncollateralized loan defaults, there aren’t any assets that creditors can reclaim immediately. The creditors only receive partial compensation from the protocols so they must resort to debt restructuring or go to court to recover their money.
“Unironically, the second instance of mass deleveraging across crypto highlights the need for transparency that DeFi offers,” Teng said.
Read more: TrueFi's $4M Bad Debt in Limbo Shows Risk of Crypto Lending Without Collateral
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 15:45 UTC): Adds update that all firms reduced their credit utilization, comment from Amber Group and context about Clearpool credit pool throughout the story."
284,204,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/crypto-exchanges-scramble-to-compile-proof-of-reserves-as-ftx-contagion-grips-markets/,Crypto Exchanges Scramble to Compile 'Proof of Reserves' as FTX Contagion Grips Markets,Nine prominent exchanges said they will publish proof-of-their-reserve holdings in the next month.,2022-11-09,"Crypto exchanges are now scrambling to publicly publish their fund reserves as insolvency fears grapple crypto investors following contagion risks stemming from liquidity issues at FTX.
In the past 24 hours, nine exchanges – Binance, Gate.io, KuCoin, Poloniex, Bitget, Huobi, OKX, Deribit and Bybit– have separately issued statements that they would publish their Merkle tree reserve certificates to increase transparency.
A Merkle tree is a data structure that is used in computer science applications. In bitcoin (BTC) and other cryptocurrencies, Merkle trees serve to encode blockchain data more efficiently and securely. They are also referred to as ""binary hash trees.""
In a centralized crypto exchange, every user’s assets are recorded by the ledger of a centralized database. The recorded assets in the database are the total amount of the user’s assets.
Using Merkle trees allows exchanges to store each user account’s hash value of assets in the “leaf nodes” of the Merkle tree. The second step is to audit those assets in the leaf node of the Merkle tree and verify all the users’ holdings by a third party.
Crypto exchange Binance founder Changpeng Zhao urged industry players to provide “proof of reserves” following Tuesday’s events involving FTX and Binance. Elsewhere, crypto entrepreneur Justin Sun said Huobi, where Sun is a stakeholder and adviser, would conduct ""a third"" Merkle tree reserve test.
All crypto exchanges should do merkle-tree proof-of-reserves.

Banks run on fractional reserves.
Crypto exchanges should not.@Binance will start to do proof-of-reserves soon. Full transparency.
FTX came under scrutiny following a CoinDesk report last week that found the balance sheet of Alameda Research, a crypto trading unit owned by Sam Bankman-Fried, who also owns FTX, was full of FTX’s native FTT tokens. This meant that Alameda rested on a foundation largely made up of a coin that a sister company invented, not an independent asset like a fiat currency or another crypto.
The report sparked rumors of FTX becoming possibly insolvent, which in turn led to industry players selling FTX-linked coins to protect their own downside. Rival Binance, which held over $500 million of FTT on its books, started to offload its holdings – which culminated in a 24-hour-long drama that ended with Binance signing an intent to acquire FTX, which is now considered by many to be insolvent.
Stablecoin issuer Circle, which counts FTX as an investor, played down its exposure to the troubled exchange along with rival Tether and crypto exchange Coinbase.
Read more: FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 12:54 UTC): Adds Deribit and Bybit's statement in the dek and second paragraph."
285,205,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/09/the-collapse-of-the-ftx-empire/,The Collapse of the FTX Empire,We'll talk about elections next week.,2022-11-09,"Hello folks. It is Election Day in the U.S., and that was going to be my main focus today, up until about 11:05 a.m. ET anyway. That’s the point when Sam Bankman-Fried announced that his company FTX would enter a “transaction” with Binance, which Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao later clarified was a letter of intent for Binance to acquire FTX.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
WELL, today has been a day. I had a whole election thing planned, but we’re not going to know what’s happening for a while anyway – so instead, I’m going to refer you to the links below to catch up on today’s news. CoinDesk will have a live-blog kicking off at about 8:00 p.m. ET to monitor for major moves and results.
FTX was a huge player. According to CoinGecko, as of this morning FTX was the fourth-largest exchange by volume. Sam Bankman-Fried was a huge donor during the midterm elections and was a leading voice on some legislation. He might still be, but his company going from being “fine” to signing a letter of intent with Binance over the course of two days might have some long-term ramifications. We’ll have more on this in the coming days, but for now catch up on the last … week? the last week of this chaos here.
This whole thing started last week when my colleague Ian Allison reported that Alameda Research, a trading firm founded by Bankman-Fried and tied to FTX, held a remarkable number of FTT tokens on its balance sheet. FTT is the token issued by FTX.
Here’s what happened next:
Binance to Sell Rest of FTX Token Holdings as Alameda CEO Defends Firm's Financial Condition
FTT-Alameda Drama Weighs on Market as Asia Begins Its Week
Open Interest in FTT Futures Doubles as Binance Moves to Liquidate FTX Token Holdings
Solana Falls and Speculation Centers on Links to Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX, Alameda
FTX/Alameda Questions Hold the Spotlight as US Midterm Election, Inflation Data Loom
FTX Token Plummets on Withdrawal Concerns, as Contagion Hits Broader Crypto Markets
Bitcoin, Ether Slide as Protective Puts Draw Demand Amid Sell-Off in FTX's Token
Abracadabra's MIM Stablecoin Briefly Lost Dollar Peg as FTX's FTT Token Tanked
FTX's Bitcoin Balance Plunges to Just One
FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange
Bitcoin, Crypto-Linked Equities Resume Falling Despite Binance/FTX Deal
FTX, Binance Deal Draws Antitrust Concern
The Story of Sam Bankman-Fried’s Backroom Deal With Binance’s CZ
Alameda Thanked for ‘Prompt Response’ in Transferring $37M of BitDAO Tokens
FTX Token Falls 80% Despite Binance Bailout as Alameda Contagion Spreads to Bitcoin
Crypto Markets Take a Wild Ride Following Surprise Binance/FTX Deal
FTX Exchange Halts All Crypto Withdrawals
We’re going to need some time to figure out the implications. Bankman-Fried personally was a major donor this past election cycle (and sprung to prominence on the back of major donations in the 2020 election). A political action committee backed by Bankman-Fried is even rumored to be the next main super PAC to receive President Joe Biden’s blessing in the next election cycle.
There's also regulatory implications. FTX US Derivatives (formerly LedgerX) has a number of CFTC licenses, and FTX famously applied to try and settle derivatives directly, which the CFTC has yet to rule on.
N/A
N/A
There are man-made metal leviathans lurking at the bottom of the ocean built to drop miniature stars on people, with their time underwater limited only by the needs of their mortal crew. https://t.co/qPTiDdL8TV
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
286,207,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/09/8-days-in-november-what-led-to-ftxs-sudden-collapse/,8 Days in November: What Led to FTX’s Sudden Collapse,"Financier and influencer Sam Bankman-Fried flew exceptionally high during the pandemic-driven crypto bull market. Here’s what led to his fall, and why it matters for the industry’s future.",2022-11-09,"The past week has seen a dizzying downward spiral for Sam Bankman-Fried’s huge crypto empire. Bankman-Fried’s FTX crypto exchange has paused withdrawals, and a tentative bailout from rival Binance appears to be kaput. That could put depositor funds at risk, and certainly spells a major setback for not only Bankman-Fried but for the cryptocurrency industry as a whole.
These downfalls aren’t rare in crypto, which is subject to extreme boom-bust cycles. But FTX and Bankman-Fried are unique in the stature they achieved before self-immolating. Over the past three years, FTX has come to be widely regarded as a reputable exchange, despite not submitting to U.S. regulation. Bankman-Fried has himself become globally influential, thanks to his thoughts on cryptocurrency regulation and his financial support for U.S. electoral candidates – not necessarily in that order.
These narratives about both FTX and Bankman-Fried are now clearly dead in the water, given recent evidence that everything was not as it seemed at the exchange, or at Bankman-Fried’s other firm, Alameda Research.
The questions to answer in the coming days will be: What happened? And why did almost nobody see it coming?
What follows is the most important context for understanding this ongoing story. That includes the sudden crisis of confidence driven by revelations about Sam Bankman-Fried’s accounting practices; the added shock of the unwind thanks to Bankman-Fried’s golden-boy reputation; and the complex role of competitor Binance and its founder, Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, in the crisis.
Facts first uncovered by CoinDesk played a major role in the events of the past week. On Nov. 2, reporter Ian Allison published findings that roughly $5.8 billion out of $14.6 billion of assets on the balance sheet at Alameda Research, based on then-current valuations, were linked to FTX’s exchange token, FTT.
This finding, based on leaked internal documents, was explosive because of the very close relationship between Alameda and FTX. Both were founded by Bankman-Fried, and there has been significant anxiety about the extent and nature of their fraternal dealings. The FTT token was essentially created from thin air by FTX, inviting questions about the real-world, open-market value of FTT tokens held in reserve by affiliated entities.
Negative speculation about a financial institution can be a self-fulfilling prophecy, triggering withdrawals out of a sense of uncertainty and leading to the very liquidity problems that were feared. Since publication of Allison’s initial story, CoinDesk reporters have been advised to practice extreme caution and diligence in reporting about FTT and other matters at Alameda and FTX.
But sometimes straightforward facts are enough to trigger an entirely justified bank run. Seemingly because of their known close ties, worries about Alameda’s balance sheet translated into a rapidly accelerating mass exodus from FTX. The exchange saw $6 billion in withdrawals in the 72 hours before things reached a head on the morning of Nov. 8, according to internal messages seen by Reuters.
According to Coinglass data, that for a time left FTX with a balance of, unbelievably, just one bitcoin. That has now rebounded to 36 BTC, compared to more than half a million BTC each held by Coinbase and Binance.
Read More: FTX Balances Tumbled 87% in 5 Days in Epic Crypto Deposit Run, Data Shows
This rush to the exits reportedly led Bankman-Fried and his team to begin frantically shopping for an acquisition partner, approaching a variety of potential partners before Binance entered the picture.
It remains worryingly unclear, though, exactly why even such a dramatic rush for the exits would have led FTX to seek its own bailout. The exchange promised users that it would not speculate with cryptocurrencies held in their accounts. But if that policy was followed, there should have been no pause to withdrawals, nor any balance sheet gap to fill. One possible explanation comes from Coinmetrics analyst Lucas Nuzzi, who has presented what he says is evidence that FTX transferred funds to Alameda in September, perhaps as a loan to backstop Alameda’s losses.
The crisis also seemed to validate anxieties about what Alameda’s immense holdings of FTT-linked assets meant for the stability of Bankman-Fried’s empire. The market value of the token is down more than 80% over the past week.
Late in the day on Nov. 8, after the announcement of a tentative deal with Binance, FTX said it had officially suspended all crypto withdrawals.
As striking as the numbers are, the greater significance of FTX’s collapse may be in how it upends a long-running narrative about SBF himself. As apparent frauds like Terra and Celsius unwound in the first half of 2022, triggering contagion across other crypto entities, Bankman-Fried was often seen both as a sane and sober counterpoint, and as a well-resourced backstop ready to rescue the entire ecosystem.
Bankman-Fried’s endeavors included loans to or moves to acquire faltering crypto lender BlockFi, lender Voyager Digital and Anthony Scarammucci’s Skybridge Capital hedge fund. Alameda Research also led a funding round for the Facebook-linked Aptos blockchain in late July, at a time when investment funds were drying up.
In his role as a funder of last resort, Bankman-Fried was frequently described, including by CoinDesk, as “the J.P. Morgan of crypto” – referring not to the Jamie Dimon-run investment bank, but to its robber-baron founder. Twice around the turn of the 19th century, in 1893 and 1907, Morgan stepped in to support emerging financial markets through a crisis with his own funds.
But there have been increasing signs that this framing was, at best, oversimplified. Bankman-Fried teased many more deals than actually went through, for instance backing out after a tentative move to acquire Celsius. Many of these deals arguably flowed money back to FTX or Alameda. And some of the headline numbers may have exaggerated exactly how much real money was on the line.
All of this is particularly relevant because of the profile Bankman-Fried has worked to build as a political influencer, both on general policy and crypto regulation specifically. Though the precise connection to this week’s crisis is a bit opaque, Bankman-Fried faced a wave of blowback in late October over a series of crypto regulation proposals. He was also a major donor to the U.S. Democratic Party.
By one preliminary estimate, this week’s disaster means Bankman-Fried is no longer a billionaire personally. That doesn’t entirely preclude future political influence via donations, but it will certainly constrain him. More significant is that Bankman-Fried’s credibility as a policy advisor, on finance or anything else, has been left in tatters – a washout for his “effective altruism” agenda.
Easily the most fascinating element of the current debacle is the role of Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, founder and head of Binance, the world’s largest centralized crypto exchange by volume. CZ and Bankman-Fried have been occasional collaborators over the past few years, but recent interactions have suggested rising interpersonal and business tension.
Zhao and Binance also materially contributed to FTX’s meltdown – though it’s unclear whether that was his intent. Apparently in reaction to CoinDesk’s reporting about the predominance of FTT on Alameda’s balance sheet, Zhao on Nov. 6 announced that Binance would liquidate a large remaining balance of FTT tokens distributed to it as part of a prior sell-off of FTX equity.
In a truly bizarre move, Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison quickly and very publicly offered Zhao an over-the-counter deal to buy the tokens at $22 each. That’s confounding both because the public offer seemed to expose anxiety within Alameda about the market impact of Binance’s sale, and because Ellison’s offer was slightly below FTT’s public exchange price at the time – not exactly much incentive to help Alameda out.
Zhao initially framed Binance’s sell-off as benignly as possible, insisting, “Regarding any speculation as to whether this is a move against a competitor, it is not.”
But later the same day, Zhao muddied that claim with a more barbed statement.
“Liquidating our FTT is just post-exit risk management, learning from LUNA,” he wrote. “We gave support before, but we won't pretend to make love after divorce. We are not against anyone. But we won't support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs. Onwards.”
Liquidating our FTT is just post-exit risk management, learning from LUNA. We gave support before, but we won't pretend to make love after divorce. We are not against anyone. But we won't support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs. Onwards.
The comparison to LUNA is particularly venomous, given that its creator, Do Kwon, is currently an international fugitive evading charges of financial fraud in South Korea. Zhao’s allusion to lobbying efforts also give the impression that there’s something personal at play here.
Zhao may have taken a dim view of a since-deleted tweet by Bankman-Fried that seemed to cast aspersions on Zhao’s Chinese ancestry. Zhao is Canadian, and has for many years bridled at suggestions that Binance is a Chinese firm.
All of this has led to speculation that Zhao has been playing four-dimensional chess against Bankman-Fried and FTX. Zhao himself later described his announcement of a large FTT sale as “the straw that broke the camel’s back,” undermining confidence in FTX at a key moment. Zhao has denied ill intent or calculation, but this was hard to credit as of Nov. 8, with Binance poised to acquire a competitor after making moves that seriously weakened it.
Then came more CoinDesk reporting Wednesday morning, since confirmed by other outlets, that Binance would likely back out of the deal after a preliminary examination of FTX’s finances. It may be some time until we fully understand exactly what Zhao saw when he got a peek behind the curtain – but it’s probably nothing good."
287,292,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/09/ftx-and-alameda-contagion-fears-tank-nft-markets/,FTX and Alameda Contagion Fears Tank NFT Markets,Rumors of Alameda liquidating its Solana holdings are sending SOL’s price into free fall; both Solana and Ethereum-based NFT markets are getting hit hard by the news.,2022-11-09,"Non-fungible token (NFT) markets are experiencing a stunning landslide in the wake of the news of Binance’s potential acquisition of FTX, shaking up several prominent exchanges.
Built on the backs of Ethereum and Solana, NFTs have fallen in value drastically in the past day since a scoop from CoinDesk spurred the collapse of FTX. While Binance’s plan to purchase Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire briefly paused prices from dropping, fresh doubts that the deal will finalize have driven prices down again.
In the past day, ETH has fallen nearly 7% and SOL has tumbled 37%.
Solana's price drop on Monday sparked speculation that Alameda had sold off a large tranche of SOL in a rush to earn new liquidity. The research firm's balance sheet showed SOL as its second-largest holding.
Regardless of what actually happened, NFT marketplaces are feeling the pain of this contagion.
According to data from Dune Analytics, OpenSea’s daily NFT trading volume on Solana has fallen from about 4,900 SOL, or $70,000, to just shy of 1,000 SOL, or $14,000 since Tuesday. For Solana-based leading NFT marketplace Magic Eden, trading volume of SOL has fallen from about 153,000 SOL or $2.5 million to almost 84,000 SOL, or about $1.4 million.
Additional data from Dune showcases OpenSea’s daily trading volume on Ethereum has also fallen from about 6,000 ETH, or $7.1 million, to about 3,900 ETH or $4.6 million in the past day.
According to a Tweet posted Wednesday by Twitter user @Punk9059, director of research at NFT collective PROOF, OpenSea is experiencing its all-time high ratio of wrapped ETH to ETH volume, meaning that NFT buyers are purchasing NFTs at bid prices, rather than buyers purchasing assets at seller’s offer prices, suggesting that users are trying to liquidate as soon as possible.
Thus far today we've seen the highest percentage of WETH volume on OpenSea vs ETH volume ever.

This means that sellers are accepting existing bids as opposed to buyers buying at sellers' offer prices. pic.twitter.com/oahbIlz9h9
While FTX.US’s NFT marketplace won’t be a part of Binance’s basket at checkout, it’s home to NFTs built on Solana and Ethereum, whose values are tanking as these tokens face the blow of these assets dropping in value while liquidations are underway.
Read More: CoinDesk's Latest Coverage of FTX and Binance"
288,208,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/first-mover-asia-prediction-markets-split-if-binance-will-pull-out-of-ftx-deal-bitcoin-drops-11/,First Mover Asia: Prediction Markets Split if Binance Will Pull Out of FTX Deal; Bitcoin Drops 11%,Investors on Polymarket think there’s a 45% chance that Binance will pull out of the FTX deal and a 55% chance the deal goes through.,2022-11-09,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos plummet on a turbulent day in digital asset markets.
Insights: Prediction markets are split whether Binance will follow through on its proposed acquisition of FTX.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Crypto Prices Plunge on Turbulent Day
By James Rubin
As earthquakes go, FTX's liquidity issues and proposed acquisition by Binance on Tuesday fell somewhere in the mid range – moderate damage to the industry's reputation and price declines that sent bitcoin and other major cryptos back to mid-October levels.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $18,400, a more than 11% decline over the last 24 hours. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization last fell below $19,000 on Oct. 21. Ether was recently changing hands a little above $1,300, off more than 16% from Monday, same time. Other major altcoins sank by double digits to cap a turbulent day that saw crypto markets sink immediately following the Binance/FTX announcement, rise hopefully and then sink again as investors absorbed the rapid decline of one of the crypto industry's leading lights.
A version of this article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
FTX’s FTT token was trading at just below $6, a 74% decline during the past 24 hours. Solana's SOL, which had tumbled Monday on speculation that Bankman-Fried's trading firm, Alameda Research, might have to dump some of its holdings in a bid to raise liquidity, was off nearly 22%. Binance’s BNB token outperformed the market, but was still down about 4%.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, recently fell just 0.5% but was down over 10% at one point.
“The FTT token will find it very hard if not impossible to recover while SOL and ecosystem tokens are likely to suffer losses too as trust appears to be eroded entirely,” wrote Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, in an email to CoinDesk, although he noted optimistically that “we don’t “expect bitcoin to face an extreme scenario. In fact, it could see increased inflows as market participants withdraw from riskier assets.”
“Either way, the sooner this gets resolved the better it is for the space, especially as it is likely to draw more attention from regulators,” DiPasquale wrote.
As U.S. voters went to the polls for midterm elections, stocks continued their momentum from Monday as the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 rose a few fractions of a percentage point, while the the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was up 1%. Safe haven gold also had another upbeat day, climbing 2.2%.
In an email, Marieke Fament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation, called said that ""consolidation is inevitable in crypto's current bear market,” but also saw FTX’s problems and the proposed acquisition as a potential learning experience.
“There's nowhere to hide during crypto winter – and developments such as the acquisition of FTX by Binance underscores the challenges and lack of transparency behind the scenes of some key players – which undermine the reputation of crypto,” Fament said. “Moving forward, the ecosystem is going to learn from these mistakes and hopefully create a stronger sector that puts honesty, transparency and consumer protection at the heart of their businesses.""
Prediction Markets Split on Whether Binance Will Follow Through on FTX Deal
By Sam Reynolds
FTX and Binance shocked the crypto market on Tuesday by announcing that the former would sell itself to the latter. Sam Bankman-Fried, once thought of as the ""Warren Buffet"" of crypto, is set to vanish from his throne.
But will the deal go through? Right now it's only a non-binding letter of intent that is subject to Binance’s due diligence. The market, however, is giving it an almost even chance of failing.
Investors on Polymarket think there’s a 45% chance that Binance will pull out of the FTX deal and a 55% chance the deal goes through. Granted, the volume is small at $573 so the sample size is not large.
Polymarket ran similar contracts about the Elon Musk-Twitter takeover deal, asking if Musk would be the CEO of Twitter by Nov. 30. Given how much drama was involved in the deal, with Musk attempting to pull out of it, it looked like the “no” side was all but certain to win. Then things changed.
Remember that Binance’s deal for FTX doesn’t include Alameda Research, the market maker and investment fund which kicked off this crisis. So maybe the exchange will sail through due diligence, or maybe there are a few more skeletons in the closet.
9:30 a.m.HKT/SGT(1:30 UTC) China Consumer Price Index (YoY/Oct)
Sharm El-Sheikh UN Climate Change Conference 2022 (Egypt)
TOKEN2049 (London)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""Money Reimagined"" on CoinDesk TV:
Blockchains, the Solution to Climate Change Concerns, From Nearcon 2022
“Money Reimagined,” hosts Michael Casey and Sheila Warren were together again at Nearcon 2022. They spoke with Marc Johnson, an environmental solutions architect for Protocol Labs, and Fred Fournier, CEO of Open Forest Protocol, about blockchain sustainability and the data needed to combat the concerns of climate change.
FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange: The two crypto exchange giants signed a a non-binding letter of intent, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao confirmed on Twitter.
Yuga Labs, Circle, SkyBridge Among Investments FTX Ventures Made Prior to Liquidity Issues: FTX Ventures invested in some of the biggest names in crypto. Meanwhile, TradFi giants such as Tiger Global participated in FTX's funding rounds.
FTX’s Push for US Crypto Clearing Left In Suspense By Binance Deal: The fate of FTX U.S. Derivatives’ application for the authority to clear customers’ crypto transactions – a potential game changer in U.S. markets – is now unclear.
FTX Exchange Halts All Crypto Withdrawals: Customer withdrawals that were previously processing but backlogged have been halted altogether, according to an announcement in the FTX Support Telegram group.
'Pharma Bro' Martin Shkreli to LUNA's Do Kwon: 'Jail Is Not That Bad': The crypto villians discussed the impending FTX-Binance deal on the UpOnly podcast on Tuesday."
289,92,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/09/midterm-elections-2022-crypto-live-blog/,Midterm Elections 2022: Crypto Live Blog,CoinDesk reporters track the 2022 election.,2022-11-09,"The U.S. votes for the House of Representatives and Senate on Tuesday, potentially setting the direction for the next two years of legislative and regulatory action.
The crypto industry has tried to play a major role in the election through donations, though results have been tempered at best. Despite that, a number of candidates with strong views on crypto are on the ballot, and whether or not they’re elected – as well as which party ends up controlling the House and the Senate – could well determine what sort of legislative priorities receive attention next year.
Despite their importance, the main story Tuesday was the surprise announcement by Sam Bankman-Fried, a major donor and the founder of trading firm FTX, and Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, the founder of Binance, that the latter had signed a non-binding letter of intent to acquire FTX.
The news came days after CoinDesk first reported that much of FTX sister firm Alameda Research’s balance sheet was composed of FTX’s own exchange token FTT, raising questions and concerns that the company may not have been as well-collateralized as it purported to be.
Prior to last week’s news, Bankman-Fried was a prominent face in Washington D.C, telling a banking conference last month that he spent much of his time talking to lawmakers and regulators. His influence may wane, given his company’s sudden decline, and legislative issues like the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act, which he supported, may suddenly lose industry backing.
ND (12:10 a.m. ET): While a number of results have rolled in, it still seems to be far too early to tell whether Democrats retain control of both houses of Congress or if Republicans will take control of one or both bodies. As of midnight ET, the New York Times rated the Senate a tossup, and the House leaning Republican.
The crypto markets remained focused on the FTX/Alameda collapse, with few in the crypto industry focusing on midterms Tuesday. The market meltdown appears to have halted, at least for the moment. The price of major cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, ether, BNB and XRP remained relatively steady over the past hour, in sharp contrast to downturns earlier in the day, according to CoinGecko.
The outlook for the crypto industry remains up in the air. A number of pro-crypto lawmakers have won their races, from both sides of the aisle. Many of the driving forces behind legislation that could move in the coming year have maintained their seats, and lawmakers from both parties seemed confident that legislation would move forward regardless of the political makeup of Congress.
The confounding factors might be the market itself. Bankman-Fried and FTX’s collapse will likely have a negative impact on how crypto is perceived in Washington. Indeed, two longtime supporters of crypto, Republican Rep. Patrick McHenry and Senator Cynthia Lummis, both argued that the collapse is a sign that the industry needs clearer regulation.
JH (11:38 p.m. ET): The son of the Rev. Jesse Jackson – Jonathan Jackson – is one of the few congressional candidates in this election to have openly advocated for cryptocurrency during his campaign. The Democrat was easily winning his Chicago district with 79% of the vote, so the crypto industry’s political-action committees can chalk up a victory there, having spent considerably to support his primary. In fact, they spent so much that Jackson had to issue a statement that said the crypto dollars were technically “independent expenditures” under campaign finance rules and therefore out of his hands.
ND (11:31 p.m. ET): New York Governor Kathy Hochul won reelection Tuesday night. Hochul has sat on a bill to prohibit new carbon-based crypto mining facilities for two years, which the state legislature passed earlier this year. She told reporters on numerous occasions that she was still reviewing the bill, but she hasn't expressed many other views on crypto.
JH (11:31 p.m. ET): Republican Markwayne Mullin, also a recipient of crypto largesse, was projected to win a full term in the Senate from Oklahoma with 62% of the vote. He won a primary to fill the seat earlier this year.
JH (11:22 p.m. ET): Democratic Reps. Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.) and Richie Torres (D-N.Y.), members of the congressional blockchain caucus, were holding onto their seats with about 58% and more than 82% of the votes, respectively. Several other House candidates supported by the cryptocurrency industry also headed toward the winners’ circle Tuesday night, including Glenn Ivey, a Democrat who crushed his opponent in Maryland, and Republican Mark Alford, who sailed to a commanding victory in Missouri. And Missouri’s attorney general, Eric Schmitt, will be the next senator there, having been backed by one of the main industry PACs.
The industry may recall New York Democratic incumbent Rep. Nydia Velazquez, who held a hearing on blockchain technology and small businesses in 2020 (which didn’t seem to produce any particular congressional action). She’s winning re-election, so she’ll be expected to return to the House Financial Services Committee.
CL (10:40 p.m. ET) Republican J.D. Vance has an 8-point lead over his Democratic competitor, Tim Ryan, in the battle for retired Ohio Senator Rob Portman’s open seat. The New York Times is reporting Vance is “very likely” to win, with 82% of the votes in. Both Vance and Ryan have been vocal about their support for the cryptocurrency industry. The outgoing Portman was a key author of the bipartisan infrastructure law which contained a crypto tax provision the industry lobbied unsuccessfully to defeat.
ND (10:35 p.m. ET): Rep. Warren Davidson, a leading pro-crypto Republican, won reelection to the House of Representatives. Davidson was the author of the Token Taxonomy Act, an effort to create some legislative clarity around how cryptocurrencies could be regulated in the U.S.
ND (10:20 p.m. ET): The crypto markets have remained relatively steady over the past hour or so, a bit of a contrast from the rest of the day. Bitcoin’s price traded around $18,000, while ether traded around $1,300, down only 1 or 2% over the past hour, according to CoinGecko. While prices have been relatively calm since polls began closing, they’re still down heavily – at least 10% or more for some major cryptocurrencies – over the past day.
Markets were shocked early on Tuesday after Sam Bankman-Fried and Changpeng Zhao announced Binance could acquire FTX under a non-binding letter of intent. The terms of the deal were not disclosed, and neither was a timeline for when the deal might close.
Prediction markets are unsure whether the deal will actually close, giving CZ the same odds of closing as they are of the deal falling through.
CL (10:09 p.m. ET) The New York Times is predicting that former Republican Congressman Ted Budd will win the senate seat in North Carolina, beating his Democratic competitor, Cheri Beasley. 84% of votes are currently in, and Budd holds a three-point lead over Beasley. As a congressman, Budd was on the Congressional Blockchain Caucus and led the charge on several crypto-friendly policy initiatives.
ND (10:05 p.m. ET): Colorado Governor Jared Polis, a Democrat, won reelection. Polis founded the Congressional Blockchain Caucus as a lawmaker in the House of Representatives, and has remained crypto-friendly during his terms as governor.
ND (9:55 p.m. ET): Rep. Patrick McHenry, the senior-most Republican on the House Financial Services Committee, won another term Tuesday night. The Congressman, who was one of the driving forces behind a highly-anticipated bill regulating stablecoins, is poised to take over the Financial Services Committee if Republicans take the House of Representatives.
JH (9:55 p.m. ET): Texas Democrat Jasmine Crockett, who was supported by an influx of crypto industry money during her primary race, was on track to easily win her seat. She represented a strategy the industry leaned on in its campaign giving this year, to focus on primaries in districts with dominant party majorities, taking the stress off their candidates’ need for support during the general election. Crockett had more than 76% of the vote at the halfway point.
CL (9:37 p.m. ET): Incumbent Texas Governor Greg Abbott, a Republican, looks primed to beat his Democratic opponent Beto O’Rourke. Though only 44% of votes are in, some outlets including Fox have already called the race in Abbott’s favor. Abbott has been a strong supporter of the crypto industry in Texas, where miners have flocked to take advantage of the state’s cheap electricity.
JH (9:33 p.m. ET): Some of the earliest East Coast states to close their polls started to hint at what all those talking heads have been talking about: The Republicans may find the momentum to seize the House.
The early results in district's like Virginia's 2nd and 7th were widely seen as bellwethers, and they both showed strong Republican numbers, though the final tallies are far from over. But other close battles, such as in Indiana’s 1st and Ohio's 1st, are so far seeing a strong start in the Democrats’ favor.
If the Republicans do win this majority, it means a new speaker of the House, of course, and also new committee chairmen – including for the House Financial Services Committee and the House Agriculture Committee. The former oversees the banking regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The latter oversees the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. These are the panels where a lot of the most important work is going to be done on bills that one day regulate cryptocurrencies in the U.S.
Fortunately for the crypto industry, digital assets oversight isn't yet one of those categories that sends Democrats and Republicans into their trenches. Even with the bullets flying next year, lawmakers may still find a path through this neutral territory to make crypto legislation happen.
ND (9:07 p.m. ET) The Associated Press projects that Rep. Darren Soto (D-Fla.) won another term representing his district in the House of Representatives. Soto has long been a member of the Congressional Blockchain Caucus, and reintroduced the Token Taxonomy Act alongside Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) last year.
ND (9:00 p.m. ET): The Associated Press and CNN are predicting that Katie Britt has won a Senate seat, representing Alabama (with 1% of precincts reporting in at press time). The Republican will succeed Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), who famously blocked unanimous consent against an amendment to last year’s bipartisan infrastructure bill which would have modified a crypto tax provision.
Britt said she supports crypto, accepting bitcoin, ethereum and dogecoin for campaign donations and announcing her “staunch support” for the crypto ecosystem.
JH (8:47 p.m. ET): Sen. Raphael Warnock (D-Ga.) is showing early hope for defending his young seat against his Republican challenger, Herschel Walker. This is one of the handful of U.S. Senate seats that can tip the 50-50 balance in that chamber, where Democrats have enjoyed their tie-breaking advantage.
Warnock had more than 50% of the vote with about 44% of the count complete, with Walker at 48%.
The Georgia incumbent is a member of both the Senate Banking Committee and the Agriculture Committee, which will probably be the two most important committees when it comes to the future of crypto regulations. However, Warnock hasn't yet been a major voice in digital-assets issues. He did sign on to a bill to make it harder for Russia to undermine sanctions by using cryptocurrencies.
CORRECTION (Nov. 9, 2022, 04:56 UTC): Corrects that Markwayne Mullin won a primary runoff election to compete in the Senate race earlier this year."
290,87,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/binance-walks-away-from-ftx-deal-wsj/,Binance Walks Away From Deal to Acquire FTX,"A spokesperson for the crypto exchange said FTX's issues ""are beyond our control or ability to help.""",2022-11-09,"Binance has scrapped its letter of intent to buy rival crypto exchange FTX, according to a Binance spokesperson.
""As a result of corporate due diligence, as well as the latest news reports regarding mishandled customer funds and alleged U.S. agency investigations, we have decided that we will not pursue the potential acquisition of FTX.com,"" the spokesperson told CoinDesk.
""In the beginning, our hope was to be able to support FTX’s customers to provide liquidity, but the issues are beyond our control or ability to help. Every time a major player in an industry fails, retail consumers will suffer. We have seen over the last several years that the crypto ecosystem is becoming more resilient and we believe in time that outliers that misuse user funds will be weeded out by the free market.
""As regulatory frameworks are developed and as the industry continues to evolve toward greater decentralization, the ecosystem will grow stronger,"" the spokesperson added.
Binance's withdrawal of its offer capped a whirlwind day-and-a-half in which the world's largest crypto exchange by volume agreed to bail out its troubled rival in the face of a liquidity crunch that was caused, in part, by Binance saying it would sell off all its holdings of FTX's exchange token FTT. CoinDesk had reported earlier that FTX's sister company, trading firm Alameda Research, had much of its balance sheet assets in FTT.
FTT, which had already plunged in recent days, was down another 32% to about $2.41 after the news of Binance pulling out of its deal to buy FTX came out.
Read more: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books: Source
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 21:02 UTC): Added statement from Binance.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 21:24 UTC): Added additional background.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 21:49 UTC): Added FTT price information."
291,291,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/09/why-did-ftx-pause-withdrawals-if-it-wasnt-trading-customer-funds/,Why Did FTX Pause Withdrawals if It Wasn't Trading Customer Funds?,The exchange's own terms of service dictate customer balances shouldn't have moved. So what really happened?,2022-11-09,"Yesterday was one of the most head-spinning days in the entire history of the cryptocurrency industry, with Changpeng Zhao’s Binance signing a letter of intent to acquire, and effectively bail out, Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange. FTX had been considered a huge success story since its founding in 2019, and founder Bankman-Fried had become a respected figurehead.
The issues at FTX have complex roots, but reached a head early Tuesday, Nov. 8, when a huge wave of withdrawals drained FTX of liquidity and effectively froze the platform – almost always a sign of serious issues for a centralized exchange.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The problems at FTX were shocking for many reasons, but perhaps most frightening is the simple fact that customer funds seemingly weren’t where they were supposed to be. As many observers pointed out, the liquidity crunch implies FTX violated its own terms of service, which read:
“None of the Digital Assets in your Account are the property of, or shall or may be loaned to, FTX Trading; FTX Trading does not represent or treat Digital Assets in User’s Accounts as belonging to FTX Trading.”
(This would not include customers who opted in to the FTX Earn product, which offered yield on deposits.)
The restrictive terms are a useful contrast with a platform like Celsius Network, whose entire premise was using customer funds to generate returns through speculative lending and trading. Celsius failed spectacularly at this task and melted down earlier this year, taking customer funds with it.
But deposits at FTX were not supposed to be subject to that kind of risk – while individual tokens might lose value, the expectation of a centralized exchange is that they won’t gamble with your money.
However, there are suddenly hints that something else may have been going on. Among those signs were dark intimations from Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong in an interview with Bloomberg late Tuesday.
""I had a number of conversations with people over the last 24 hours,” Armstrong said, “And there's reasons why [Coinbase acquiring FTX] would not make sense, and we're not quite at liberty to share the details right now. I’m going to let other people share that if and when they’re ready ... it'll probably all come out eventually.""
See also: The Story of Sam Bankman-Fried's Backroom Deal With | Opinion
At a moment of great uncertainty, it’s risky to read too much into those sorts of tea leaves. But Armstrong certainly seems to know something the rest of us don’t. Just before publication of this story, it also became apparent that Binance may pull its buyout offer off the table after less than 24 hours of reviewing FTX’s balance sheet.
The nightmare scenario would be that FTX has been using customer funds for trading or other speculative activities – possibly including loans to sister company Alameda Research – and lost funds in the process.
For now, it’s unclear whether FTX is facing Celsius-style insolvency – an uncoverable debt at the level of its entire balance sheet. But the swift movement to seek a bailout after just a few hours of liquidity crunch could be read as further evidence of deeper, and perhaps more insidious, problems."
292,80,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/who-still-has-exposure-to-ftx/,Who Still Has Exposure to FTX?,"Genesis, Wintermute, Multicoin and more – a running list of those with continued exposure to the embattled cryptocurrency exchange.",2022-11-09,"CORRECTION (Nov. 9 19:53 UTC): Corrects subhead and the first entry to Genesis from Gemini.
The crypto industry is in turmoil after insolvency issues drove major exchange FTX to accept a nonbinding acquisition offer from rival Binance that might not go through. FTX suspended withdrawals on Tuesday, but some peers and major traders still have assets stuck on the exchange.
In response to the market volatility on Tuesday, Genesis, a trading firm for institutional investors, tweeted on Nov. 9 that it ""hedged and sold collateral resulting in a total loss of ~$7M across all counterparties, including Alameda.""
Genesis reiterated that it has no material exposure to FTX’s native FTT token and has no lending relationship with FTX. The exchanges have a trading relationship – ""amongst other exchanges"" – but the exposure ""has no impact on our ability to serve our clients.""
On Thursday, Genesis tweeted that its derivatives business currently has about $175 million in locked funds in its FTX trading account, which doesn't impact its market-making activities. The trading firm also noted that its operating capital and net positions in FTX are not material to its business and recent events surrounding FTX haven't impeded the full functioning of its trading franchise.
Genesis and CoinDesk share the same parent company: Digital Currency Group.
The market maker, which helps provide liquidity to crypto exchanges, reduced its exposure to FTX once the initial solvency concerns were raised.
Wintermute tweeted that it has remaining funds on FTX and noted that “while this is not ideal, the amount is within our risk tolerances and does not have a significant impact on our overall financial position.”
Crypto-focused venture capital firm Multicoin Capital has around 10% of the total assets under management of its Master Fund stuck as pending withdrawals on FTX, according to a letter from the firm viewed by The Block.
Multicoin was able to move about 24% of its FTX-held assets before the withdrawal freeze went into effect on Tuesday. The stuck assets include bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and USD.
The market maker has no exposure to FTX sister company Alameda or the FTT token, but the trading firm has been an active participant on the FTX exchange.
“While we have significantly reduced our exposure over the course of the week, we still have withdrawals that have yet to be processed,” wrote the firm, noting that the stuck assets represent less than 10% of Amber Group’s total trading capital and doesn’t “pose a threat to our business operations or liquidity.”
Liquid Meta (LIQQF), a decentralized finance infrastructure and technology company, used FTX for a number of services, including onboarding and offboarding currencies and coins used in its liquidity mining operations, according to a press release. The company also used FTX for overcollateralized loans used in Liquid Meta’s operations.
As of Nov. 9, Liquid Meta held about $7.5 million in cash, stable coins and other digital assets via FTX, of which the company directly holds and has access to $3.2 million of borrowed stable coins and assets, leaving a net balance of approximately $4.3 million.
Liquid Meta doesn’t hold any FTT tokens.
European digital asset investment and trading group CoinShares disclosed “limited exposure” to FTX and no exposure to Alameda Research on Twitter. CoinShares “significantly reduced” its FTX exposure in the past week to 26.6 million British pounds ($31 million) of proprietary assets, and notes that its overall financial health remains strong.
The exposure includes 190 bitcoin (BTC) to the tune of $3.1 million and 1,000 ether (ETH) worth about $1.2 million in pending withdrawals. The exposure also includes roughly $25.9 million in USD and USDC and $110,000 of other assets.
Crypto-focused investment giant Pantera Capital said in blog post that most if its exposure to FTX was from ""Blockfolio acquisition proceeds, which were denominated in FTT and FTX stock."" However, it liquidated as much of FTT tokens as possible on November 8. Prior to that, FTT token positions totaled under 3% of total firm's assets under management (AUM), Pantera said. According to a its website, it had $4.5 billion in AUM.
UPDATE (Nov. 10, 14:30 UTC): Updates to add Liquid Meta's response.
UPDATE (Nov. 10, 16:02 UTC): Updates to add CoinShares' response.
UPDATE (Nov. 10 ,22:58 UTC): Updates Genesis' response to add additional details.
UPDATE (Nov. 12, 16:31 UTC): Updates to add Pantera Capital's response."
293,503,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/09/defi-exchange-platform-dydx-places-solana-in-close-only-mode/,DeFi Exchange Platform dYdX Places Solana in 'Close Only' Mode,The move comes after Solana has plummeted 40% in 24 hours due to its link with the beleaguered Sam Bankman-Fried empire.,2022-11-09,"Decentralized exchange dYdX placed Solana trades in “close only” mode, meaning users will only be able to close out their positions on the perpetuals exchange and not open new ones.
DYdX cited “market volatility” as its reason for making the move. Solana’s SOL token fell precipitously today on the news that FTX, a crypto exchange that holds a major stake in Solana, has become insolvent. SOL is currently priced at $14.10, down 40% from $24 a day ago.
Due to extreme market volatility, SOL-USD will be put into close-only. No new positions can be opened at this time.
DYdX is a “hybrid” decentralized exchange that uses code – rather than a central intermediary – to facilitate most of its operations. The platform facilitated $3 billion worth of transactions in the past 24-hours, making it the largest decentralized finance (DeFi) exchange by daily trading volume according to CoinMarketCap.
Decentralized exchanges exist as a response to centralized trading platforms like FTX that take full custody of user funds – a practice that is viewed by some as anathema to crypto’s founding goals around self-sovereignty and trustlessness.
Though dYdX will continue allowing users to close out their positions, the announcement that it would disallow some kinds of trades – even to protect users – led to attacks from some who believe a “decentralized” platform shouldn’t be able to curtail user activity.
This is ridiculous, is this your definition of decentralization...it is very much centralized if you can make this decision without community vote
DYdX is not the only trading platform that has restricted Solana trades due to the day’s high volatility and sinking prices. The centralized exchange Crypto.com halted Solana-based stablecoin deposits and withdraws earlier today, and the exchange OKX announced that it would delist Solana futures and stop listing new options.
DYdX didn’t immediately respond to CoinDesk’s request for comment."
294,54,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/crypto-fund-alameda-ethereum-wallet-holdings-slumped-50-since-october/,Crypto Fund Alameda's Ethereum Wallet Holdings Slumped 50% Since October,On-chain analysis shows Alameda has a $3 million debt spread over several Ethereum addresses.,2022-11-09,"Crypto fund Alameda Research holds just over $222 million in cryptocurrencies over 56 Ethereum addresses, analysis by on-chain researcher Lookonchain showed Wednesday.
That's half the more than $500 million it had Oct. 1, according to data compiled by The Block. Ether (ETH), the native token of the Ethereum blockchain, fell just over 8% in the same period.
Alameda has come under scrutiny following a CoinDesk report last week that found its balance sheet was full of FTT, the native token of crypto exchange FTX. Both companies are owned by Sam Bankman-Fried, meaning the trading fund rested on a foundation largely made up of a coin invented by its sister company, not an independent asset like a fiat currency or another cryptocurrency.
1/ How many assets does #Alameda have on-chain?

We analyzed 56 addresses starting with ""0x"" of #Alameda.

The net worth of Alameda is 222.4M USD.

And we also analyzed Alameda's assets and Debts on Defi.👇#AlamedaResearch #FTTcrash #FTT #FTX pic.twitter.com/nonmvleXP8
More than $150 million of Alameda's tokens are held in its Ethereum wallets, with 50% of that held in just one wallet. Another 13 addresses hold more than $1 million, and 19 contain $100,000. Some $75 million worth of tokens is held in decentralized finance (DeFi)-based wallets.
Crypto holdings over $1 million consist of stablecoins, ether, BitDAO (BIT) and FTT.
Alameda has debt of $3.6 million overall, the research shows.
Alameda supplied more than 6.9 million FTT tokens, worth $35 million at the time of this writing, to DeFi lending application Abracadabra. Another 4.6 million SUSHI, worth $6.11 million, is held on the DeFi exchange SushiSwap.
“She could withdraw and sell at any time,” Lookonchain said, referring to Alameda co-CEO Caroline Ellison.
Alameda didn't immediately respond to a request for comment."
295,74,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/long-crypto-traders-take-on-700m-in-losses-as-markets-falls-on-ftx-contagion-fears/,'Long' Crypto Traders Take on $700M in Losses as Markets Falls on FTX Contagion Fears,"Crypto market capitalization fell 8.8% in the past 24 hours, data shows.",2022-11-09,"Total crypto market capitalization slid to $900 billion from over $1 trillion on Wednesday morning as traders reacted to speculations around prominent exchange FTX’s liquidity issues. Over $700 million in long positions, or bets for higher prices, was liquidated in the past 24 hours as traders were caught on the wrong footing.
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) each declined more than 8% in the past 24 hours to reach levels previously seen in October 2020, putting a gradual recovery on hold. Other crypto majors like XRP, dogecoin (DOGE) and cardano (ADA) slipped over 12%, while solana (SOL) – of which Sam Bankman-Fried is a prominent backer – dropped 25%.
Futures tracking bitcoin and ether saw a cumulative $390 million loss due to liquidations, while SOL futures saw $40 million liquidated. FTT futures had a relatively lesser $27 million in liquidations – implying the steep drop was mostly driven by sales of spot tokens.
Liquidation refers to when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position because of a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader cannot meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).
FTX came under scrutiny following a CoinDesk report last week that found the balance sheet of Alameda Research, a crypto trading unit owned by Sam Bankman-Fried, who also owns FTX, was full of FTX’s native FTT tokens. This meant that Alameda rested on a foundation largely made up of a coin that a sister company invented, not an independent asset like a fiat currency or another crypto.
The report sparked rumors of FTX becoming possibly insolvent, which in turn led to industry players selling FTX-linked coins to protect their own downside. Rival Binance, which held over $500 million of FTT on its books, started to offload its holdings – which culminated in a 24-hour-long drama that ended with Binance signing an intent to acquire FTX, which is now considered by many to be insolvent.
Such market dynamics spooked crypto markets as traders reacted to possible contagion risks. FTT prices slid 70% to reach levels previously seen in mid-2021."
296,81,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/bitcoin-falls-below-17k-amid-latest-ftx-meltdown/,Bitcoin Hits 2-Year Low Below $16K After Binance Backs Out of FTX Deal,"Bitcoin's price fell as low as $15,625 Wednesday. It was the first time the largest cryptocurrency has fallen below $16,000 since November 2020. The BTC price was down 14% on the day, the biggest plunge in almost five months.",2022-11-09,"Bitcoin (BTC) dropped to its lowest level in two years on Wednesday as crypto traders processed the news that Binance exchange retreated from an earlier plan to buy its once-mighty but suddenly ailing rival FTX.
The CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index fell to $15,625, the lowest since November 2020, after Binance said that, after conducting due diligence on FTX, it would not go through with the deal. BTC was down 14% on the day, the biggest single daily drop since mid-June.
Binance on Tuesday said it would buy the billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX after what appeared to be a severe run on deposits but backed out on Wednesday afternoon citing ""mishandled funds and alleged U.S. agency investigations.""
The fear among crypto traders is that the distress at FTX or at Bankman-Fried's trading firm, Alameda Research, might lead to forced selling, potentially hitting not just the FTX's own exchange token, FTT, but other cryptocurrencies from bitcoin to ether and Solana's SOL.
""This is another one of those catalysts,"" said Bob Iaccino, Path Trading Partners co-founder and chief market strategist. ""I wouldn't be surprised if bitcoin went as low as $9,000, which for me, as someone who got out of bitcoin and is waiting to get in again, would actually be a positive.""
Read More: Crypto Exchanges Scramble to Compile 'Proof-of-Reserves' as FTX Contagion Grips Markets
CoinDesk reported previously that the balance sheet of Alameda Research, also under Bankman-Fried's control, was heavily weighted toward the FTX exchange's own token, FTT – signaling billions of dollars of exposure for which there might not be ample buyers, and thus prone to steep losses in the event of a sell-off.
Binance described its initial agreement as a non-binding letter of intent, and executives said the deal would be subject to due diligence.
""I still believe crypto is here to stay but these things need to clean out before you can do serious investments in the space, especially from a traditional finance perspective,"" Iaccino said.
Read More: 'Long' Crypto Traders Take on $700M in Losses as Markets Falls on FTX Contagion Fears
The downward move in bitcoin reverberated in traditional markets on Wednesday, where at one point the ProShares Bitcoin Strategy ETF (BITO) briefly had to halt transactions as the underlying BTC futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) plunged – in turn triggering a stock-exchange circuit breaker on the ETF.
Trading quickly resumed but the incident showed the sudden viciousness that has reappeared in crypto markets following months of seemingly rangebound trading in bitcoin around $20,000.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 21:53 UTC): Updates BTC price and latest Binance news."
297,276,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/alameda-in-eye-of-crypto-storm-takes-37m-of-wrapped-bitcoin-off-ftxus-exchange/,"Alameda, In Eye of Crypto Storm, Takes $37M of Wrapped Bitcoin Off FTX.US Exchange","The purpose of the token movements is unclear, and the amount likely a small portion of the overall firm's holdings, but the observation shows Alameda scrambling to arrange its finances – using the Ethereum blockchain.",2022-11-09,"Struggling trading firm Alameda Research, sister company of crypto exchange FTX that appears to be suffering from a blockchain-era deposit run, withdrew some $37 million in the form of wrapped bitcoin (wBTC) – a type of bitcoin derivative – from the FTX.US crypto exchange on Wednesday.
It's unclear what the motive is for the token movements, and the amount is likely just a fraction of the firm's holdings; prior to the recent crypto markets crash, in June, its balance sheet included at least $14.6 billion of assets.
But the observation of the withdrawal – visible in transaction data on the Ethereum blockchain – offers a glimpse of a troubled company scrambling behind the scenes to arrange its finances. Crypto market analysts have speculated that the trading firm might be searching for liquidity while trying to satisfy demands from creditors.
Based on Ethereum blockchain data from the crypto intelligence platform Arkham Intelligence, a wallet associated with Alameda withdrew 2,262 wBTC in four separate transactions within minutes from crypto exchange FTX.US.
Later, it sent 3,000 wBTC tokens, worth of $50 million, to an address labeled as ""Wrapped Bitcoin: Controller.""
The trading volume on FTX.US for WBTC has been about $10,000 in the past 24 hours, meaning that there is no market depth on the exchange if someone would sell large amount of the token.
A spokesperson of FTX.US declined to comment. Alameda did not immediately respond to an inquiry.
FTX.US is a U.S.-based entity for American users, separate from the crypto exchange FTX but still part of the erstwhile billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire.
FTX halted user withdrawals on Tuesday after users rush to pull their cryptocurrencies out. The rival Binance exchange made a bailout offer to FTX, but now it is reportedly backing out of a deal, CoinDesk reported.
Alameda Research, a large market maker on FTX, is under immense pressure as it scrambles for liquidity. Its website went dark and has not communicated recently with the public."
298,413,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/cryptocom-halts-solana-usdc-and-usdt-deposits-withdrawals/,"Crypto.com Halts Solana USDC and USDT Deposits, Withdrawals",The crypto trading platform cited “recent industry events” in an email to users announcing the suspension.,2022-11-09,"Cryptocurrency exchange platform Crypto.com has halted the flow of two top Solana ecosystem stablecoins, as the implosion of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX empire continues to wreak havoc across the wider crypto ecosystem.
Citing “recent industry events” in an email to users Wednesday, Crypto.com said “effective immediately” the platform would be “suspending deposits and withdrawals of USDC and USDT on the Solana Blockchain in the Crypto.com App and Exchange.”
Read More: Solana Blockchain Hit by FTX Tremors as Nearly $800M SOL Tokens Set to Be Unstaked
The email continued to say that stablecoin deposits in other ecosystems, including Ethereum and Cronos, would not be impacted.
Crypto.com CEO Kris Marszalek, in a tweet responding to this article, explained that ""FTX was an important bridge/venue for SOL-based stablecoins, we do not want any additional risk to our users coming from this area, hence disabling it.""
Solana is a smart contract platform that is positioned as a competitor to Ethereum offering high speeds and low fees. It hosts a range of decentralized finance apps, but a large portion of its total supply is controlled by SBF’s Alameda Research trading firm, and FTX – the exchange firm that imploded this week.
Read More: Staked SOL Tokens Falter as Solana Traders, Stakers Rush for Exits
Solana’s native SOL token suffered as a result of FTX’s collapse, dropping over 40% on Wednesday at a price of $14.37. This is 92% below its price from a year ago.
Stablecoins like USDC and USDT, which stay “pegged” to the price of $1, are vital instruments in the volatile world of decentralized finance. It’s unclear why, exactly, Crypto.com was forced to suspend activity.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 21:37 UTC): Adds a statement from Crypto.com CEO Kris Marszalek."
299,402,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/09/ftx-blowup-puts-trove-of-prized-bored-apes-at-risk-of-liquidation/,FTX Blowup Puts Trove of Prized Bored Apes at Risk of Liquidation,"Yuga Labs, the NFT collective behind the majority of tokens held in the crypto empire’s wallet, has previously raised capital from FTX Ventures, although Alameda Research is in control of the wallet.",2022-11-09,"As Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire teeters on the brink of an solvency crisis, one potential source of money is a trove of prized non-fungible tokens (NFT) worth millions of dollars owned by Alameda Research.
The 92-NFT collection features 31 rare ones from the Bored Ape Yacht Club collection and 26 Otherdeed for Otherside tokens, both created by NFT powerhouse Yuga Labs.
FTX Ventures, the $2 billion VC wing of the crypto empire, was a prominent investor in Yuga Labs’ $450 million funding round last March. A representative of the firm says that FTX's financial sibling Alameda Research is in charge of the wallet, and has previously traded Bored Apes as part of its NFT trading strategy.
The collection has an estimated value of between 4,000 and 5,000 ETH (or roughly $4.7 million to $5.8 million), according to Nikolai Yakovenko, the founder of NFT valuation site DeepNFTValue. That’s likely far from enough to prop up FTX, though, given how big it is and how badly wounded it seems to be.
Read more: Binance Walks Away From Deal to Acquire FTX
The situation is reminiscent of the Three Arrows Capital blowup that put the crypto hedge fund’s multimillion-dollar “Starry Night” NFT collection in jeopardy of liquidation earlier this year. No NFTs from that fund have so far been auctioned, though the entire collection was moved to a safehouse wallet in October.
Among the Alameda wallet’s rarest collectibles are three Bored Apes with gold fur, a trait with a floor price of 1,000 ETH. The last gold fur Bored Ape sold for 800 ETH, though in the event of liquidation, Yakovenko estimates each of the gold fur NFTs would fetch around 500 ETH given current market conditions.
The collection also has four “trippy fur” Bored Apes, a trait that currently sports a 599 ETH floor, according to OpenSea.
The wallet’s most recent Bored Ape activity was three months ago, according to Etherscan."
300,62,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/09/binance-ceo-zhao-says-planned-ftx-acquisition-is-not-a-win-for-us/,Binance CEO Zhao Says Planned FTX Acquisition Is Not a 'Win for Us',Zhao also noted in a Wednesday memo to staff that Binance had stopped selling its holdings of FTX's tokens given the ongoing due diligence for the deal.,2022-11-09,"Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao wrote in a note to staff on Wednesday that the exchange's agreement to acquire rival FTX is not ""a win for us."" Zhao shared the memo on Twitter after the Financial Times initially reported on it.
In the spirit of transparency, might as well share the actual note, sent to all Binance team globally a few hours ago.https://t.co/IUNkPcLC8T pic.twitter.com/XGlIJB7EV5
FTX's near collapse has ""severely shaken"" confidence in the crypto industry and will see regulators ""scrutinize exchanges even more,"" Zhao wrote in the note.
""Licenses around the globe will be harder to get,” he added.
The Sam Bankman-Fried-led exchange FTX agreed to sell itself to the world's largest crypto exchange Tuesday after it faced a liquidity crisis, following concerns about the makeup of sister firm Alameda Research's balance sheet, first reported by CoinDesk on Nov. 2.
Binance initially responded to the report by selling all of its FTT tokens, the native coin of FTX, which hastened the widespread exodus of assets from the FTX platform.
In his Wednesday note, Zhao reminded staff not to trade FTT tokens as due diligence for the deal continues. He acknowledged that Binance continued to own FTT tokens but that as soon as he finished talking to Bankman-Fried on Tuesday, he told his team to stop selling its holdings of FTT.
“We need to hold ourselves to a higher standard than even in banks,” Zhao wrote.
Zhao also said in his staff note that Binance ""did not master plan this or anything related to it.""
""It was less than 24 hours ago that SBF called me. And before that, I had very little knowledge of the internal state of things at FTX. I could do some mental calculations with our revenues to guess theirs, but it would never be very accurate,"" Zhao wrote.
Read more: The Story of Sam Bankman-Fried’s Backroom Deal With Binance’s CZ"
301,86,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/cathie-woods-ark-buys-238k-more-shares-in-coinbase-exchange-amid-crypto-rout/,Cathie Woods’ ARK Buys 238K More Shares in Coinbase Exchange Amid Crypto Rout,"The purchase adds to the more than 400,000 Coinbase shares bought by ARK’s exchange-traded funds earlier this week.",2022-11-10,"ARK Investment Management exchange-traded funds (ETF) purchased 237,675 shares in crypto exchange Coinbase (COIN) as the stock retreated amid fallout from the near-collapse of rival FTX.
ARK, led by Cathie Woods, purchased over 400,000 shares in Coinbase earlier this week.
The majority of the recent purchases were bought in ARK’s Innovation ETF, with additional shares in its Next Generation Internet ETF and the Fintech Innovation ETF, according to company disclosures.
Coinbase said this week it has minimal exposure to FTX, with just $15 million on deposit there to facilitate business operations and customer trades. Further, Coinbase said it has no exposure to FTX's token FTT – which plunged about 80% Tuesday – and no exposure to FTXs' sister company, Alameda Research.
“While COIN has minimal exposure to FTX, before there is enough evidence that the contagion risk is contained, the pressure on crypto prices will likely weigh on COIN,” Oppenheimer analyst Owen Lau told clients in a research note Thursday morning. The firm lowered its price target to $89 from $107, maintaining an outperform stock rating.
Coinbase shares slumped about 22% this week through Wednesday. They rose 12% to $51.50 in early trading Thursday.
Read more: Coinbase Says No Exposure to FTT Token and Alameda, Minor Deposits at FTX"
302,133,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/ftx-exposure-limited-says-venture-capital-giant-sequoia/,"FTX Investment Now Worth Zero, VC Giant Sequoia Says","In a note to limited partners, Sequoia says it invested just over $200 million in FTX via two funds.",2022-11-10,"Venture capital giant Sequoia Capital reassured investors the firm remained largely unaffected by the unraveling of crypto exchange giant FTX and wider decline in digital asset markets even as it marked its investment down to zero.
In a note to Limited Partners posted on the firm’s Twitter page, Sequoia said the exposure it has to FTX is limited, and whatever money it has lost has been offset by billions of dollars in gains.
Sequoia said that it has invested $150 million into FTX.com and FTX.us via its Global Growth III fund and $63.5 million into the exchange and its U.S. division via its SCGE Fund. These investments represent 3% of the Global Growth III fund and less than 1% of the SCGE fund.
“The $150 million loss is offset by the approximately $7.5 billion in realized and unrealized gains in the same fund, so the fund remains in good shape,” Sequoia wrote in a note.
The VC fund noted that in 2021, when it made the investments, FTX generated $1 billion in revenue and $250 million in operating income.
FTX’s investors include Softbank, Temasek Holdings, the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Race Capital, and Lightspeed Venture Partners, among others.
“We are in the business of taking risk. Some investments will surprise to the upside, and some will surprise to the downside,” Sequoia wrote. “We do not take this responsibility lightly and do extensive research and thorough due diligence on every investment we make.”
FTT’s exchange token is currently trading at $2.40, down 58% on day.
UPDATE (Nov. 10, 03:20 UTC): Updates headline and first paragraph."
303,135,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/sam-bankman-fried-says-his-trading-firm-alameda-research-is-winding-down/,"Sam Bankman-Fried Says Alameda Winding Down, Promises FTX US Customers' Funds Are 'Fine'",The trading company's owner tweeted the news on Thursday morning.,2022-11-10,"FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried promised to use “every penny” his crypto exchange has to repay users ahead of investors, apologizing for his “f**k up” in a tweet thread Thursday.
The 30-year-old former billionaire took to Twitter to say Alameda Research – his empire’s once mighty crypto quant shop and market maker – would go dark “one way or another.” Of FTX, his upstart derivatives exchange that became the crypto industry’s darling, he said it will “embrace radical transparency” – if it continues operating at all.
Bankman-Fried also shut down rumors that Alameda was attempting to short – and possibly destabilize – tether, the largest stablecoin by market capitalization. On Thursday morning, the price of tether traded down to 97 cents and to even as low as 93 cents on the crypto exchange Kraken.
He also promised the users of FTX.US that their funds were ""fine,"" echoing a claim he made about FTX immediately before revealing that the exchange was not, in fact, fine.
Alameda came under scrutiny last week after CoinDesk published a balance sheet suggesting it had heavy holdings of the FTT token – an exchange token issued by FTX, Alameda’s sister company also founded by Bankman-Fried.
Read more: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried’s Crypto Empire Blur on His Trading Titan Alameda’s Balance Sheet
Although the CEO assured customers that his company was fine, repeatedly saying on Twitter that he had no solvency issues, on Tuesday he revealed that he was facing liquidity concerns and had come to an agreement with crypto exchange Binance to acquire FTX. That deal fell apart a day later.
On Thursday, Bankman-Fried suggested FTX might still survive, saying, “There are a number of players who we are in talks with, LOIs (letters of intent), term sheets, etc.”
“We'll see how that ends up,” he added.
In his thread, Bankman-Fried tried to explain his company’s situation, saying FTX “poorly” labeled bank-related accounts internally, and so he misjudged users’ margins. Customers withdrew $5 billion worth of assets on Sunday, but had the liquidity to support only 80% of that, with leverage 1.7 times what FTX had.
“FTX International currently has a total market value of assets/collateral higher than client deposits (moves with prices!),” he said in another tweet.
The revelations come as regulators ramp up scrutiny of the trading company. U.S. investigations include the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission, while Japan’s Financial Services Agency ordered the local FTX branch to suspend operations immediately.
Read more: Washington D.C.’s Buddy Sam Bankman-Fried Has Some Explaining to Do
In his thread Thursday, Bankman-Fried didn't address reports that FTX was using customer funds to prop up Alameda.
“What matters right now is trying to do right by customers. That’s it,” he tweeted about customers.
Tracy Wang contributed reporting.
UPDATE (Nov. 10, 2022, 15:00 UTC): Adds additional information and context throughout."
304,403,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/solanas-sol-surges-after-blockchains-foundation-delays-plan-to-unstake-tokens/,Solana’s SOL Surges After Blockchain's Foundation Delays Plan to Unstake Tokens,A record amount of SOL was unstaked as investors reclaimed their tokens from the blockchain's security mechanism. But it could have been a lot more. The SOL price jumped 27%.,2022-11-10,"A record 31 million of the Solana blockhain’s SOL tokens were unstaked Thursday from the blockchain’s security mechanism, a day after crypto analysts warned that some investors might be seeking to redeem their holdings as the price of the digital assets tanked.
But the price of SOL surged in digital-asset markets after the Solana Foundation, which supports development on the blockchain, said it would postpone a plan to unstake some 28.5 million tokens.
A total of 63 million SOL was previously ready to be unstaked at the conclusion of the Solana blockchain’s “epoch 370” staking lockup period, according to a statement from the Solana Foundation on Thursday.
The foundation had tweeted late Wednesday that about 28.5 million SOL tokens scheduled to be unstaked had been re-staked due to a policy change of cloud service provider Hetzner on Nov. 2.
Those tokens are owned by the Solana Foundation’s treasury and had been staked as part of a delegation program, according to the tweet.
“While 28.5M SOL was in the process of being unstaked during this epoch, the plan to unstake has now been postponed, and all 28.5M SOL have now been re-staked,” according to the tweet thread.
The SOL price fall appeared to be tied to speculation surrounding this week's drama involving the rapid deterioration of erstwhile billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, including the FTX exchange and Alameda Research trading firm.
Riyad Carey, research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko, told CoinDesk on Monday that SOL is Alameda's second-largest holding, and it also holds significant amounts of SOL ecosystem tokens including MAPS and OXY.
The speculation was Alameda might need to dump its SOL tokens to raise liquidity.
SOL’s price recently rose 27% to around $17 after plunging as low as $12 in the past 24 hours. (Crypto markets were broadly higher; the CoinDesk Market Index jumped 11%.)
Solana didn’t specify the exact change of the data center provider that caused the restaking action, after a request for comment from CoinDesk. Hetzner didn’t immediately return for comment as of press time.
An “epoch” on the Solana blockchain refers to the time period when staking rewards are earned and then issued. Validators will lock in their stake on the blockchain during this period, which takes about two days, and can choose to unlock the tokens once the epoch is over.
The new epoch period, known as 371, started Thursday morning, with currently around 660,000 SOL tokens, worth more than $11 million, already scheduled to unstake after the lock-in period ends, according to Solana Compass.
Eliézer Ndinga, director of research at crypto investment products firm 21.co, said that some operational indicators of the Solana blockchain, such as user adoption, still look healthy.
The number of applications built on top and the retention rate of the developers is also “a testament” to the ecosystem's overall health, Ndinga said.
“I believe that there is nothing that is structurally damaging for the Solana adoption itself,” he told CoinDesk. “Solana should come up stronger as long as, of course,"" [it remains]."
305,164,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/ether-solana-trade-at-premium-on-ftx-here-is-probably-why/,"Ether, Solana Trade at Premium on FTX – Here Is (Probably) Why","The premium stems from users with trapped assets on FTX putting their money into major tokens in hopes of receiving some recovery value, one observer said.",2022-11-10,"Ethereum's native token, ether (ETH) and Solana's SOL are drawing higher prices on troubled crypto exchange FTX relative to Binance and other platforms. The unusual market dynamic has observers scrambling for an explanation.
At press time, ether traded at a premium of $52 or 4.5% on FTX compared to Binance, data from the charting platform TradingView show. SOL meanwhile traded at a premium of nearly $2 or 11%. A similar premium is seen in FTX-based perpetual futures contracts tied to BTC and ETH.
The premium stems from FTX-based traders switching from cash and cash equivalents (stablecoins) to major cryptocurrencies in the wake of the exchange stopping clients from taking direct custody of their crypto and fiat funds and signaling potential bankruptcy, according to Markus Thielen, head of research and strategy at Matrixport.
""While FTX pricing might not be in line with other exchanges anymore, traditional bankruptcy procedures always favor the asset holders over the cash holders as assets should be assigned to users. Co-mingled or not,"" Thielen told CoinDesk. ""Hence, users with trapped assets on FTX could be putting their money into major tokens in hopes of receiving some recovery value as their name would / should be assigned to that asset.""
""That’s why ETH is trading at a premium,"" Thielen said.
In other words, users are more likely to receive some value if they hold crypto assets rather than cash or cash equivalents. And that's probably prompting FTX-based traders to snap up coins, leading to relatively higher prices on the exchange.
FTX's troubles began early this week after Binance moved to liquidate its holdings of the FTX token (FTT) in response to a CoinDesk report showing FTX's sister concern Alameda holding large amounts of illiquid FTT tokens on its balance sheet.
On Tuesday, Binance offered to bail out FTX only to back out of the deal late Wednesday. FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried told investors that without a cash injection, the company may have to file for bankruptcy.
Per some observers, the FTX premium in the perpetual markets results from clients executing ""synthetic withdrawals"" from the troubled exchange.
Users are supposedly executing a synthetic or paper withdrawal by purchasing (going long) ETH, SOL perpetual contracts on FTX and selling or shorting an equal amount on Binance, creating a market-neutral or delta-neutral position. That way, users get custody of their funds, at least on paper, and stand protected against an extended price slide.
""It's a synthetic withdrawal play. The thesis is that if FTX goes down, markets go down and users get paid on their short positions outside FTX even if FTX balance becomes worthless,"" Lewis Harland, portfolio manager at Decentral Partk Capital, told CoinDesk.
A fund manager I know who’s trapped in FTX just went totally degen:

He’s bearish, so he went all in long on FTX, and hedged equal size on Binance, hoping to “get the money back on Binance without waiting for withdrawals”

if the market bounces instead, he’s double fucked on FTX
Crypto hedge fund Galois Capital, which predicted the Terra turmoil early this year, voiced a similar opinion in a Tweet thread.
""In the case of the world where the acquisition deal goes through, you are roughly flat (lose a bit on the basis). In the case of the world where the acquisition falls through, the losses on FTX don't matter much because you can't get your money out anyway, but you win on the short Binance leg,"" Galois said.
The assumption here is that a potential FTX bankruptcy will trigger another round of panic selling in the market. And if FTX secures funding, clients will be made whole. However, both things are not promised.
After Binance backed out from a bailout deal, investors may have priced in a potential bankruptcy. And markets may bounce once the bankruptcy is confirmed in a classic ""sell the rumor, buy the fact"" trade, yielding losses on the short trade taken outside FTX.
Further, a trader can get liquidated on both exchanges due to high volatility. Liquidations occur when the market goes against the bullish/bearish position, leading to margin shortage.
BTC-PERP on FTX now ~150 higher than Binance. Likely going long on FTX and shorting on Binance as a way to save funds.

If FTX comes out / funding secured, they are made whole. If they fail, markets likely tank and they print on their short leg.

What are second order effects? pic.twitter.com/WRxONKKE62
According to Galois Capital, the strategy seems the best fit for a token like SOL that would generally do poorly in both deal and no-deal states.
""Since the current SOL value is the superposition of both the deal and no deal worlds, if it ends up being a deal, SOL should have a short-term rally and if it ends up being no deal, SOL should fall,"" Galois Capital noted.
""The upside is shallower because who actually wants to buy SOL in the current environment where everyone is relatively poorer and there is an overhang of unlocking Alameda tokens which will be continuously liquidated over time,"" the fund added."
306,131,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/market-wrap-cryptos-recover-slightly-from-ftx-fatigue-with-a-dose-of-encouraging-inflation-data/,Market Wrap: Cryptos Recover Slightly From FTX Fatigue With a Dose of Encouraging Inflation Data,"Bitcoin, ether and other major altcoins regained lost ground amid fallout from the crypto exchange’s unraveling after an unexpected decline in the consumer price index.",2022-11-10,"On Day Four of crypto exchange FTX’s near-death experience, crypto markets sighed and did what they often have done historically: rally.
On Thursday they had cause for optimism when an unexpectedly positive Consumer Price Index report indicated the U.S. Federal Reserve’s recent diet of hawkish, 75 basis point interest rate hikes were working towards reducing a year-long bout of high inflation.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin was recently trading near $18,000, a more than 13% increase over the past 24 hours that made its Wednesday plunge below $16,000 – to a level not seen since late 2020 – seem antiquated.
Ether was recently changing hands over $1,300, up almost 17% from Wednesday, same time. All other cryptos in the top 20 by market capitalization were feeling more like themselves again, rising well into the double digits as FTX and inflation fatigue waned – at least temporarily. Even FTX’s beleaguered FTT token, whose accumulation by the exchange’s sister company Alameda Research ignited the current mess, was up over 50% to $3.40. Solana’s SOL, which also figured prominently on Alameda’s balance sheet, raising investor alarm, jumped more than 40%.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, rose 12%.
Stocks soared, staging their biggest rally in two years as investors celebrated the heartening CPI inflation data. The tech-heavy Nasdaq rose 7.3%, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) increased 5.5% and 3.7%, respectively.
In an email to CoinDesk, 3iQ Head of Research Mark Connors noted optimistically that the “one persistent development” distinguishing “the crypto winter from all others is the emergence of ETH dominance as measured by the ETH/BTC ratio.”
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Crypto prices have been volatile, although markets have seen worse in their brief history.
BTC’s Nov. 9 decline was its 10th-largest decrease since 2015, although it's only the second-largest decline for 2022, highlighting how tumultuous the year has been.
Read the full technical take here.
Tron's TRX Jumps 140% Amid 1:1 FTX Redemption of Tron-Based Tokens: TRX, the native token of the Tron network, surged over 140% on cryptocurrency exchange FTX, from 12 cents to 29 cents after Tron founder Justin Sun agreed to move Tron-based assets from FTX to external wallets. Read more here.
Solana’s SOL Surges After Blockchain's Foundation Delays Plan to Unstake Tokens: A record amount of SOL was unstaked as investors reclaimed their tokens from the blockchain's security mechanism. But it could have been a lot more. As of press time, the SOL price jumped 46% in the past 24 hours. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at Bloomberg’s epic story on crypto.
Tether Freezes $46M of USDT Held by FTX Following Law-Enforcement Request: The stablecoin lost its $1 peg earlier on Thursday.
FTX Balances Tumbled 87% in 5 Days in Epic Crypto Deposit Run, Data Shows: A glance at data from Arkham Intelligence shows the behind-the-scenes operational reality that drove billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's beleaguered FTX exchange to order a withdrawal halt this week.
US Justice Department, Regulators Contacted Binance on FTX Talks, Source: The authorities want to know what Binance learned about FTX's inner workings.
Several Investors in Talks for $9.4B FTX Rescue, Reuters Reports: A group of investors are involved in bailout talks for Sam Bankman-Fried's troubled crypto exchange, Reuters reported.
Revisiting MicroStrategy's Pain Points as Bitcoin Tumbles: This week's plunge in the price of bitcoin again raises questions as to whether Executive Director Michael Saylor will at some point be forced to sell some or all of his company's vast holdings.
JPMorgan Sees Wave of Crypto Deleveraging From FTX’s Woes: JPMorgan strategists said bitcoin's production cost could be an indicator of the market bottom.
Cathie Woods’ ARK Buys 238K More Shares in Coinbase Exchange Amid Crypto Rout: The purchase adds to the more than 400,000 Coinbase shares bought by ARK’s exchange-traded funds earlier this week."
307,302,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/ftx-backed-crypto-unicorn-layerzero-bought-out-stake/,FTX-Backed Crypto Unicorn LayerZero Bought Out Stake,The interoperability protocol sent a memo to investors outlining its buyout strategy.,2022-11-10,"In May, blockchain interoperability protocol LayerZero raised $135 million at a $1 billion valuation in a funding round that was co-led by FTX Ventures. The implosion of crypto exchange FTX – and the empire of its CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried – raised questions about its venture capital arm and the fate of its portfolio companies.
LayerZero CEO Bryan Pellegrino answered the question on Thursday, tweeting out a memo that was sent out to the startup’s investors. LayerZero structured an agreement and bought out FTX, FTX Ventures and sister firm Alameda Research from all equity positions, token warrants and all other agreements between the parties.
LayerZero currently has about $107 million in direct cash balance and $27 million in on-chain funds primarily in stablecoins for a total of $134 million. An additional $11.5 million was on FTX and used operationally, but LayerZero said it is treating this as $0 for “the sake of sanity” and expects that some of that money will be recoverable.
Pellegrino wrote that the startup has “at least [seven] years of runway even in our aggressive projections.”
Read more: The Collapse of the FTX Empire"
308,201,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/first-mover-asia-crypto-exchange-bitmex-publishes-proof-of-reserves-ahead-of-fridays-bmex-listing-bitcoin-rebounds-after-dropping-below-16k/,First Mover Asia: Crypto Exchange BitMEX Publishes Proof of Reserves Ahead of Friday’s BMEX Listing; Bitcoin Rebounds After Dropping Below $16K,"On Wednesday, Binance, Gate.io, KuCoin and Huobi were among the exchanges that said they would publish Merkle tree reserve certificates. Their announcements came amid the mounting crisis involving FTX.",2022-11-10,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin sank below $16K for the first time in two years before rallying. Ether drops under $1.1K.
Insights: BitMEX holds more bitcoin than what it owes customers, its proof-of-reserves show.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin Rallies, but Still Lumbers Near Two-Month Lows
by James Rubin
A sad Wednesday for cryptocurrencies seemed to get sadder by the minute before bitcoin and a number of leading altcoins by market capitalization staged a small rally.
As Asian markets opened, BTC was trading at about $16,200, down nearly 11% over the previous 24 hours, but a marked improvement from earlier in the day when it seemed headed toward $15,000. The decline continued bitcoin's downward trend this week following the rapid unraveling of crypto exchange giant FTX, which suffered a liquidity crisis and was then jilted by would-be rescuer Binance.
Ether followed a similar pattern, tumbling below $1,100 for the first time since mid-summer before regaining a small swathe of lost ground. The second-largest crypto in market value was recently changing hands at about $1,140, off more than 12% from Tuesday, same time. ETH had been hovering over $1,500 for the past two weeks.
Other major cryptocurrencies continued to plunge for a third consecutive day as investors fretted over every development in an industry already rocked by calamities involving crypto giants Terraform Labs, Three Arrows Capital and Celsius Network.
FTX’s FTT token recently dropped almost 55% a day after plummeting about 80% and was trading at just $2.34. The Solana platform’s SOL token recently fell almost 40% to continue its downward momentum of recent days. Last week, CoinDesk reported that a copy of FTX sister company Alameda's balance sheet showed the firm held $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.” Even Binance’s BNB token was down about 15% after outperforming most other cryptos on Tuesday.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was down 3%.
A day after U.S. midterm elections, stocks saw their first red of the week, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 dropping 2.4% and 2%, respectively. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was off 1.9%. Safe haven gold ticked down slightly.
In an email, Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda, wrote that the FTX debacle and its much-admired CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, has shaken an industry often criticized for its lack of guardrails.
“Sam Bankman-Fried was supposed to be bulletproof,” Moya wrote. “SBF was crypto’s ‘white knight’ and the implosion of FTX means no one is safe. The stabilization period for crypto is over and now we wait to see if other contagion risks emerge.”
Moya added: ""Cryptos are under intense pressure as contagion risks remain elevated from the FTX liquidity crisis. No one wants to touch anything that has ties with FTX and that is troubling news.""
Crypto Exchange BitMEX Publishes Proof of Reserves Ahead of Friday’s BMEX Listing
By Shaurya Malwa
Crypto exchange BitMEX was among the first players to publish updated proof-of-reserves of their crypto holdings as fear gripped markets amid FTX’s liquidity crisis.
Crypto exchanges are now scrambling to publicly publish their fund reserves. On Wednesday alone, nine exchanges – Binance, Gate.io, KuCoin, Poloniex, Bitget, Huobi, OKX, Deribit and Bybit – separately issued statements that they would publish their Merkle tree reserve certificates to increase transparency.
Publishing proofs can take one month, but OKX Director of Finan to publish results, BitMEX opted for a simpler way: “All BitMEX has done here is publish a basic list of the reserves. The list contains all the bitcoin we have under our custody on behalf of our clients, it is as simple as that,” the exchange said in a Wednesday post.
While most exchanges said they would use Merkle tree processing to publish results, BitMEX opted fora simpler way: “All BitMEX has done here is publish a basic list of the reserves. The list contains all the Bitcoin we have under our custody on behalf of our clients, it is as simple as that,” the exchange said in a Wednesday post. (The list of BitMEX’s custodied assets is available here.)
The list contains the execution scripts for each user transaction under custody, which in turn include BitMEX public keys. “This, therefore, proves that the company is able to access all the funds, assuming the company has access to the private keys associated with the public keys,” BitMEX said.
At one point on Nov. 8, BitMEX held a reserve bitcoin balance of 75,742.4 BTC against liabilities of 75,617.1 BTC, meaning it holds assets in excess of what it owes to customers.
The proof-of-reserves preceded Friday’s initial listing of BMEX tokens, BitMEX’s native token. The exchange initially announced the token in 2021, as CoinDesk reported, before airdropping BMEX to users based on their activity. The tokens were supposed to be offered for trading in July, but those plans were dropped amid faltering “market conditions.”
For some crypto market observers, the decision by BitMEX, which has historically focused on derivative trading, was a means for the exchange to remain relevant.
“BitMEX ‘degens’ and the ‘trollbox’ were mainstays of the Wild West world of crypto trading before newer exchanges launched and gained relevance after 2017,“ said Tim Behrsin, founder of crypto project Grexie, in a Telegram chat.
“BitMEX issuing tokens is how the exchange remains relevant among new crypto traders spoilt by choice by rival exchanges that offer interest-accruing exchange tokens and discounts based on tokens held.
Pacific Bitcoin Conference (Santa Monica, California)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Consumer Price Index ex Food & Energy (YoY/Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Initial Jobless Claims (Nov 4)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Markets Tumble as FTX Reportedly Hit With $6B in Withdrawals
Fears over FTX's solvency led to massive withdrawals from the cryptocurrency exchange, an offer from rival Binance to purchase the company, and ripple effects throughout the crypto markets. CoinDesk's Tracy Wang has the latest details in this developing story. Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.), Kristin Smith of the Blockchain Association and Sylvia Jablonski of Defiance ETFs also joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the unfolding drama.
Alameda Research, FTX Ventures Websites Go Dark: The websites were either taken down or made private only a day after news broke that Binance had signed a letter of intent to purchase its cash-strapped rival exchange.
Crypto Stocks Continue Drop as Binance Walks Away from FTX Deal: Concerns around FTX's health along with the broader crypto ecosystem spilled into the stock market Wednesday.
With FTX Bloodied, Rival in US Regulatory Fight Adds Another Knife: One of the traditional, regulated firms that has opposed an FTX effort to upend derivatives clearing – Cboe Digital – jumped into the drama by issuing a letter boasting about its safety measures.
Alameda, In Eye of Crypto Storm, Takes $37M of Wrapped Bitcoin Off FTX.US Exchange: The purpose of the token movements is unclear, and the amount likely a small portion of the overall firm's holdings, but the observation shows Alameda scrambling to arrange its finances – using the Ethereum blockchain.
A Failed FTX-Binance Deal Is ‘Catastrophic’ for Crypto Sector: Binance scrapping its acquisition of rival FTX could mean institutional investors deciding to pull funds out of the crypto industry.
Most of FTX's Legal and Compliance Team Quit, Report: Semafor, a news organization in which FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried invested, cites people familiar with the matter.
Bitcoin Hits 2-Year Low Below $16K After Binance Backs Out of FTX Deal: Bitcoin's price fell as low as $15,625 Wednesday. It was the first time the largest cryptocurrency has fallen below $16,000 since November 2020. The BTC price was down 14% on the day, the biggest plunge in almost five months."
309,282,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/trx-momentarily-surges-4000-on-ftx-as-justin-sun-emerges-as-latest-would-be-ftx-savior/,"TRX Momentarily Surges 4,000% on FTX After Justin Sun Emerges as Latest 'Would Be' FTX Savior",Justin Sun offered a “way forward” for embattled exchange FTX earlier.,2022-11-10,"Tron network’s native TRX token momentarily surged some 4,000%, from 6 cents to $2.50, on embattled crypto exchange FTX even though they are trading for 6 cents on other prominent exchanges, such as Binance and OKX.
Tron-based assets such as BTT, SUN and JST rocketed higher as well, trading for several multiples on FTX in contrast to other bourses.
It’s not a result of repetitive fat finger trades, nor have FTX traders gone euphoric on TRX.
The high prices are a sign of hope – a hope that Tron-based assets will be redeemed on a 1:1 basis by Tron founder Justin Sun. Traders on FTX, at the time of writing, cannot withdraw any assets from FTX, and trading accounts are selling for pennies on the dollar.
But TRX could be a way out for some crypto hopefuls.
Earlier during the day, Sun offered a “way forward” for FTX – which receded into insolvency following the aftermath of a CoinDesk report – stating that the ongoing liquidity crunch was “harmful to the industry development and investors alike.”
Binance founder Changpeng Zhao was earlier the frontrunner to take over FTX, but that deal fell apart after scrutiny of FTX’s books.
This followed on another Sun tweet yesterday. “We will do everything we can to protect our users, including exchange all #TRX, #BTT, #JST, #SUN, #HT on the FTX platform at a 1:1 ratio,” he said.
Sun’s play is to attract, and honor, Tron-based assets like BTT and SUN, as well as Huobi’s native HT tokens, stemming from FTX. The move allows for large traders to liquidate some of their holdings while improving sentiment for the Tron ecosystem.
The sentiment was quick to improve. The trading of TRX, and related assets, was restarted on FTX in Asian hours on Thursday, moving prices to over $2.50. Prices corrected to 32 cents as of writing time – hours after Sun’s tweet – and still trade at a 400% premium compared to other exchanges."
310,7,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/ftx-has-made-34m-in-trading-fees-since-recent-ftt-token-burn-despite-withdrawal-freeze/,FTX Has Made $34M in Trading Fees Since Recent FTT Token Burn Despite Withdrawal Freeze,"FTX did not report the recent token burn, which was scheduled on Nov. 7.",2022-11-10,"Cryptocurrency exchange FTX has made $34 million in trading fees since the last time it burned its native FTT token on Oct. 31 even though customers have been unable to withdraw funds this week.
Customer withdrawals were frozen following a liquidity crunch that came after customers took out $6 billion in a 72-hour period. Despite this, the exchange has continued to operate.
The company had been in talks with rival exchange Binance over a potential acquisition that now appears to have been scrapped.
Since its inception, FTX has allocated 33% of all trading-fee revenue to burning the FTT token on a weekly basis. FTX failed to report the most recent token burn, which was scheduled for Nov. 7.
The pending burn, scheduled for Monday, stands at $11,397,021 in the form of 3,795,212 FTT tokens, equating to over 1% of the token's total supply.
The largest token burn in FTX's history took place in in May last year when it burned $10.2 million worth of FTT, according to the company's website."
311,209,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/10/ftx-collapse-sparks-alarm-from-us-lawmakers/,FTX Collapse Sparks Alarm From US Lawmakers,Subtitle not found,2022-11-10,"The dramatic collapse of crypto exchange FTX has – perhaps naturally – sparked a number of calls for greater regulation or faster legislative action from leading U.S. lawmakers.
FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried revealed earlier this week that his exchange had ""liquidity crunches."" Later reporting suggested FTX had comingled customer funds with Alameda Research, another company founded by Bankman-Fried. FTX has a nearly $10 billion hole and froze withdrawals on its exchange. FTX US, a related entity, similarly warned its customers that it may also freeze trading in the coming days.
A number of lawmakers have published statements expressing concern about the situation.
Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), who chairs the Senate Banking Committee, said in a statement:
“The recent collapse of FTX is a loud warning bell that cryptocurrencies can fail, and just like we saw with over-the-counter derivatives that led to a financial crisis, these failures can have a ripple effect on consumers and other parts of our financial system. The cryptocurrency market’s continued turmoil is why we must think carefully about how to regulate cryptocurrencies and their role in our economy. It is crucial that our financial watchdogs look into what led to FTX’s collapse so we can fully understand the misconduct and abuses that took place. I will continue to work with them to hold bad actors in crypto markets accountable. I’m committed to finding the best path forward to protect consumers and the stability of the U.S. markets and banking system.”
Sen. Patrick Toomey (R-Pa.), the ranking member on the Senate Banking Committee, tweeted:
It seems FTX’s foreign exchange was acting in ways that put customer funds at significant risk.

Given that traditional financial exchanges generally operate much differently, I imagine many FTX customers were not well informed (if at all) about the firm’s debatable actions.
""The crypto sector has been operating with far too much ambiguity because (a) regulators refuse to give well-meaning actors clear guidance and (b) lawmakers refuse to act,"" he said later in the thread.
Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), who chairs the House Financial Services Committee, said in a statement:
“The recent fall of FTX.com – a major international cryptocurrency trading platform – is just the latest example in a string of incidents involving the collapse of cryptocurrency companies and the impacts these failures have on consumers and investors. Although FTX’s U.S.-facing company is reportedly operational, FTX’s FTT tokens are now worthless, and even worse, FTX.com customers are completely unable to access their funds. Now more than ever, it is clear that there are major consequences when cryptocurrency entities operate without robust federal oversight and protections for customers.""
""For four years, under my leadership as Chairwoman, the Committee on Financial Services has led the way in examining and investigating the cryptocurrency marketplace. This includes the Committee’s formation of Congress’ first-ever Task Forces on Financial Technology and Artificial Intelligence, along with the working group on digital assets. In addition, for several months, I've been working around the clock with Ranking Member Patrick McHenry to craft bipartisan legislation that establishes a federal framework for stablecoins in order to begin building the safeguards needed to protect customers’ assets and insulate our financial markets from contagion. This week’s news further highlights the urgent need for legislation.”
Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), the ranking member on the House Financial Services Committee, said in a statement:
“For years, I have advocated for Congress to develop a clear regulatory framework for the digital asset ecosystem, including trading platforms. The recent events show the necessity of Congressional action. It’s imperative that Congress establish a framework that ensures Americans have adequate protections while also allowing innovation to thrive here in the U.S. I look forward to learning more from FTX and Binance in the coming days about these events and the steps they will take to protect customers during the transition.”
Sen. John Boozman (R-Ark.), the ranking member on the Senate Agriculture Committee and a co-sponsor of the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act, said in a statement:
""The events that have transpired this week reinforce the clear need for greater federal oversight of the digital asset industry.""
""That has been our goal since we began drafting the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act of 2022. Working closely with our colleagues, financial regulators, academics and a wide array of industry participants, we introduced a robust bill that aims to bring transparency and accountability to the market.""
""In light of these developments, we are taking a top-down look to ensure it establishes the necessary safeguards the digital commodities market desperately needs.""
""Chairwoman [Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.)] and I remain committed to advancing a final version of the DCCPA that creates a regulatory framework that allows for international cooperation and gives consumers greater confidence that their investments are safe.""
""While our legislative work continues, the Commodities and Futures Trading Commission already has the ability to regulate and prosecute fraud, manipulation and abuse. I strongly encourage them to actively exercise those authorities when necessary.""
Sen. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), who sits on the Senate Banking Committee, said in a statement:
“The recent events that have transpired between FTX and Binance are the clearest example yet of why we need clear rules of the road for digital asset exchanges in the United States” said Sen. Lummis. “Market manipulation, lending activity, and whether customer funds and assets were appropriately safeguarded are just a few of the many issues my colleagues and I need to consider in the coming days. Transparent and fair exchange regulation, which is provided for in the Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act, is essential to ensuring customers are protected while still promoting responsible innovation.”
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who sits on the Senate Banking Committee, tweeted:
The collapse of one of the largest crypto platforms shows how much of the industry appears to be smoke and mirrors. We need more aggressive enforcement and I'm going to keep pushing @SECGov to enforce the law to protect consumers and financial stability.https://t.co/uOPi8MV25J
Warren's tweet in particular provoked a backlash from a number of crypto executives, including the CEO of publicly traded Coinbase, Brian Armstrong, who said U.S. regulators pushed crypto traders offshore by not providing clear rules for companies to abide by.
Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler has on numerous occasions said he believes crypto exchanges should register as national securities exchanges, though he has stopped short of saying whether the agency would force companies to do so.
Crypto exchanges like Coinbase have been resistant to this call."
312,214,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/first-mover-asia-possible-legal-filings-could-clarify-ftxs-relationship-to-alameda-bitcoin-hovers-near-17k/,First Mover Asia: Possible Legal Filings Could Clarify FTX’s Relationship to Alameda; Bitcoin Hovers Near $17K,"Possible legal filings could show how intertwined FTX and its sister company were, even as CEO Sam Bankman-Fried follows through on his promise to shutter Alameda.",2022-11-10,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos spent their day in the green as investors relished encouraging inflation data.
Insights: How intertwined were FTX and Alameda Research? The answer may soon be forthcoming.
Cryptos See Deep Green as Investors Relish U.S. Inflation Report
by James Rubin
After rallying on Thursday amid encouraging U.S. inflation data, bitcoin found a happy nesting place near $17,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at $16,970 a more than 4% gain over the past 24 hours as investors filled with new hope about the economic future returned to riskier assets. At one point, BTC rose more than 13% to trade near $18,000. A Wednesday plunge, spurred by the ongoing FTX unraveling, had sent its price to two-year lows.
Ether was recently changing hands over $1,230, up 5.6% from Wednesday, same time. Other cryptos in the top 20 spent Thursday well into the green. In an email to CoinDesk, 3iQ Head of Research Mark Connors noted optimistically that the “one persistent development [distinguishing] the crypto winter from all others is the emergence of ETH dominance as measured by the ETH/BTC ratio.”
Other cryptos in the top 20 by market cap, spent the day in the green amid – at least temporarily – waning FTX and inflation fatigue. Even FTX’s beleaguered FTT token, whose accumulation by the exchange’s sister company Alameda Research ignited the current mess, was recently up over 20% to $2.90. Solana’s SOL, which also figured prominently on Alameda’s balance sheet, raising investor alarm, recently rose more than 6%.
On Thursday investors had cause for optimism when an unexpectedly positive Consumer Price Index report indicated the U.S. Federal Reserve’s recent diet of hawkish, 75 basis point interest rate hikes were working towards reducing a year-long bout of high inflation.
This article was adapted from Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was down about 3%.
Stocks soared, staging their biggest rally in two years as investors cheered the heartening price data. The tech-heavy Nasdaq rose 7.3%, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) increased 5.5% and 3.7%, respectively.
In an email, Mati Greenspan, the founder and CEO of research and advisory group Quantum Economics, saw a positive in FTX's disintegration. ""In a way, FTX collapsing is a self-inflicted wound by the crypto market intended to prevent bad regulation from killing our future,"" Greenspan wrote. ""I don't think anyone, including CZ [Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao] wished their demise nor the contagion it caused. But frankly I'd much rather see the platform disappear into the void than jeopardize everything we're trying to build.""
Joined at the Hip? Details About the FTX-Alameda Relationship May Soon Be Forthcoming
by Sam Reynolds
FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried publicly claimed that Alameda Research was a “wholly separate entity” from FTX. All the evidence, including corporate filings, pointed to the contrary. The legal fallout from the exchange’s decline, including the increasing possibility of a bankruptcy filing, will clarify how intertwined the two entities have been.
Meanwhile, on Thursday, the 30-year-old former billionaire took to Twitter to say Alameda – his empire’s once mighty crypto quant shop and market maker – would go dark ""one way or another.""
A CoinDesk scoop from last week revealed that a notable portion of Alameda’s balance sheet was FTX’s FTT token. Reuters reported Thursday that FTX used customer funds to prop up Alameda Research during market turmoil in May.
A filing from Singapore’s corporate registry has shown that Bankman-Fried and other FTX corporate executives retained key roles at Alameda’s Singapore subsidiary.
The filing listed Bankman-Fried as an authorized representative, alongside Constance Wang (Wang Zhe), FTX’s chief operating officer, and Darren Wong, FTX’s chief marketing officer. The other representatives on the filing are part of a corporate services firm that helped establish the entity.
This Singapore entity is wholly owned by Alameda’s British Virgin Islands parent. There’s also an Alameda Research entity in The Bahamas, as many of the staff are based on the island.
There’s no Alameda Research in Hong Kong, but rather a Cottonwood Grove that is controlled by Bankman-Fried (it shares the name with an entity in Antigua).
If FTX ends up filing for a U.S. bankruptcy, there will be a document dump, much like in the case of Three Arrows Capital, where all will be laid bare.
Meanwhile, the Financial Times has a first look at what it believes is the FTX empire and the results of their research is impressive.
Surely regulators like the Commodities Futures Trading Commission were aware of the Alameda-FTX relationship for some time, but this spectacular collapse of the two companies will force them to act.
The prevailing narrative of FTX-Alameda had been one of brazen corruption:

FTX gives Alameda priority orderflow, allowing its sister hedge fund to front-run other traders.

Taking a few privileged basis points on the 3rd largest exchange would be a perpetual money machine.
During the GameStop frenzy of early 2021, market maker Citadel Securities came under intense scrutiny for its relationship with brokers. Now imagine if Citadel and the New York Stock Exchange were one and the same. Regulators’ heads explode if Jeffrey Sprecher and Ken Griffin’s names appeared together on a list of a company’s directors.
And what do other crypto market makers think of all of this? They don’t like it.
One that spoke to CoinDesk on background clarified that market makers and takers (the counterparty) must have equal access to the exchange with no party at an advantage. Exchanges are also not supposed to comingle funds, something Reuters reported FTX is guilty of doing.
We’ll learn a lot more if FTX ends up before a bankruptcy court. It’ll probably be the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, which has heard many of the major crypto bankruptcy cases this year. And it might even be the same judge, too.
Sharm El-Sheikh Climate Change Conference (Egypt)
DCL Metaverse Music Festival
11 p.m. HKT/SNST (3 p.m. UCT): University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index (Nov./preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
CFTC Commissioner on FTX Fallout; Bitcoin Pares Losses as Inflation Eases
Bitcoin jumped above $17,000 after hitting two-year low. FTX reportedly warned of possible bankruptcy, while Tron's Justin Sun was ""putting together a solution."" This came as U.S. regulatory scrutiny of FTX was reportedly heating up. CFTC Commissioner Kristin N. Johnson and Citi Digital Asset Analyst Joe Ayoub joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the latest developments surrounding the FTX fallout.
Revisiting MicroStrategy's Pain Points as Bitcoin Tumbles: This week's plunge in the price of bitcoin again raises questions as to whether Michael Saylor will at some point be forced to sell some or all of his company's vast holdings.
FTX Assets Frozen by Bahamian Regulator: The Bahamas Securities Commission said it was a “prudent course of action” to “preserve assets and stabilize the company.”
The Role Regulators Played in the FTX Fiasco: The collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's blockchain empire is a direct result of crypto’s centralized development and lack of U.S. regulations.
FTX Has Made $34M in Trading Fees Since Recent FTT Token Burn Despite Withdrawal Freeze: FTX did not report the recent token burn, which was scheduled on Nov. 7.
Binance Releases Wallet Addresses of $69B Crypto Reserve: The exchange said it will share its proof-of-funds in the coming weeks."
313,940,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/binance-releases-wallet-addresses-of-69b-crypto-reserve/,Binance Releases Wallet Addresses of $69B Crypto Reserve,The exchange said it will share its proof-of-funds in the coming weeks.,2022-11-10,"Binance released a list of its cold wallets and reserves a day after backing out of a deal to buy troubled crypto exchange FTX.
The crypto exchange says its holds around 475,000 bitcoin (US$7.8 billion), 4.8 million ether ($5.57 billion), 17.6 billion USDT ($17.4 billion), 601 million USDC ($607 million), as well as close to 21.7 billion of its own stablecoin BUSD (worth $21.9 billion) and 58 million of its BNB tokens (worth $16 billion).
In total, the reserves listed had a total market value of around $69 billion, based on current market prices.
Binance also said that it will share its Merkle tree proof-of-funds in the coming weeks.
Using Merkle trees allows exchanges to store each user account’s hash value of assets in the “leaf nodes” of the Merkle tree. The second step is to audit those assets in the leaf node of the Merkle tree and verify all the users’ holdings by a third party.
Read more: Crypto Exchanges Scramble to Compile 'Proof of Reserves' as FTX Contagion Grips Markets"
314,128,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/ftx-used-customer-funds-among-other-assets-to-prop-up-alameda-research-in-may-reuters/,FTX Used Customer Funds Among Other Assets to Prop Up Alameda Research in May: Report,"FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried transferred at least $4 billion in funds, according to a report.",2022-11-10,"Sam Bankman-Fried transferred at least $4 billion in FTX funds secured by assets including the crypto exchange's FTT token and shares in the trading platform Robinhood Markets (HOOD) to support Alameda Research after the trading firm suffered a series of losses from deals, according to three people familiar with its operations, Reuters reported Thursday.
A portion of the funds were customer deposits, two of the people said. The exact value of these assets could not be determined.
One of the losses Alameda faced involved a $500 million loan agreement with crypto lender Voyager Digital, the report said. Voyager filed for bankruptcy protection one month later.
FTX halted all non-fiat customer withdrawals on Tuesday after receiving $6 billion in withdrawal requests over 72 hours earlier this week. Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao signed a non-binding letter of intent to acquire FTX to ease liquidity pressure, but he now appears to have scrapped any potential deal.
UPDATE (Nov. 10; 8:57 UTC): Switches photo from generic banner.
UPDATE (Nov. 10; 10:02 UTC): Adds details of Voyager loss. Adds context in final paragraph."
315,436,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/10/crypto-execs-ask-for-clearer-us-regulatory-policy-after-ftx-collapse/,Crypto Execs Ask for Clearer US Regulatory Policy After FTX Collapse,"The CEOs of Coinbase, Ripple and Circle called for clearer policy framework in a tweet thread started by Sen. Elizabeth Warren.",2022-11-10,"The CEOs of Coinbase (COIN), Ripple and Circle said that a lack of a clear framework from regulators was the reason why most of the crypto trading in the U.S. occurs on offshore exchanges – like the now-struggling FTX.
Replying to a tweet by Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) on the collapse of crypto exchange FTX, Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong said that FTX was not registered in the U.S. Armstrong added that a lack of clarity from the Securities and Exchange Commission is the reason most U.S. trading activity occurred offshore.
Backing Armstrong, Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse pointed to the regulatory framework in Singapore as an example.
""Brian is right – to protect consumers, we need regulatory guidance for companies that ensures trust and transparency. There's a reason why most crypto trading is offshore – companies have 0 guidance on how to comply here in the US,"" Garlinghouse said.
""Compare that with Singapore which has a licensing framework, token taxonomy laid out, and much more. They can appropriately regulate crypto b/c they've done the work to define what 'good' looks like, and know all tokens aren’t securities (despite what Chair Gensler insists),"" he added.
Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire also backed Armstrong and added that lack of a proper regulatory framework in the U.S. has left users exposed to the overseas supervisory structure.
In a separate thread Kraken co-founder Jesse Powell echoed the opinions of his peers.
""U.S. lawmakers and regulators have some accountability too. You drove this business offshore because you refused to provide a workable regime under which these services could be offered in a supervised manner. Enforcement wrongfully focuses on convenient, on-shore good actors,"" Powell added.
The unprecedented collapse of industry heavyweight FTX and its once beloved founder Sam Bankman-Fried has pushed regulators into overdrive, with FTX facing probes from both the Justice department and the SEC.
When asked in September if the SEC would be more proactive in its regulation of crypto exchanges by CoinDesk, SEC Chair Gary Gensler deflected the question.
Read more: FTX Faces US Justice Department Probe: WSJ
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 09:42 UTC): Adds comment from Kraken's Jesse Powell."
316,707,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/sol-market-in-the-state-of-panic-record-volatility-and-put-demand-suggests/,Panic Grips SOL With Record Volatility and Massive Put Demand,An incoming supply deluge seems to have spooked investors in both the spot and derivatives markets.,2022-11-10,"The long-awaited crypto volatility explosion has arrived and it is signaling panic for Solana's SOL token.
SOL's seven-day implied volatility, a measure of expected price turbulence in the short term, has skyrocketed to an annualized 270% – twice as high as bitcoin's 135%, according to digital assets data provider Amberdata. SOL's 30-day implied volatility has surged to 190% versus bitcoin's 95%.
SOL's seven-day call-put skew has dropped to a lifetime low of -99%, a sign of record demand for bearish puts relative to bullish calls. Investors typically buy puts when anticipating a price slide.
""There is panic in the SOL market,"" Gregoire Magadini, director of derivatives at Amberdata, said, noting the spike in implied volatility.
""Traders are nervous about the value of SOL and the potential for massive liquidations. SOL is a collateral asset, it's likely to get liquidated as FTX/Alameda needs to raise cash... Therefore, the options market is pricing more volatility in SOL vs. BTC,"" Magadini added.
Rumors of troubled exchange FTX's sister concern Alameda liquidating its Solana holdings has already sent SOL into a freefall. The token has dropped 58% to nearly $10 in four days, according to CoinDesk data.
Additionally, an incoming supply deluge seems to have spooked investors in both the spot and derivatives markets.
Solana validators who provide security to the blockchain are set to unlock nearly $800 million worth of their SOL holdings in a few hours, amounting to 5.4% of the cryptocurrency's total supply.
Further, there could be continued token emissions over the short term, keeping supply-side pressures strong.
""In addition to continued withdrawal of SOL from validators, our emissions and unlock tracking for the token flagged an upcoming core team allocation vesting in 11 days. This unlock represents 2,558,000 SOL coming to market. Emissions will continue at their standard rate of 68,493 SOL/day,"" The TIE Research said in a note on Wednesday.
""We expect a minimum that an incremental 32,214,758 SOL will arrive for potential sale on the secondary market. This number will increase as a result of any further validator deactivation,"" The TIE Research added."
317,97,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/ftx-balances-tumbled-87-in-5-days-in-epic-crypto-deposit-run-data-shows/,"FTX Balances Tumbled 87% in 5 Days in Epic Crypto Deposit Run, Data Shows",A glance at data from Arkham Intelligence shows the behind-the-scenes operational reality that drove billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's beleaguered FTX exchange to order a withdrawal halt this week.,2022-11-10,"Withdrawals from the FTX crypto exchange were so rapid and vicious that the overall balance of digital assets on the venue has tumbled 87% over the past five days, data shows.
The blockchain-era version of an epic bank run culminated Nov. 8 when the exchange led by Sam Bankman-Fried announced a halt to withdrawals. (On Thursday there were fresh reports that some withdrawal requests were suddenly getting processed, although some Twitter posters wrote that they have since been shut off.)
The data, from Arkham Intelligence, might be a conservative estimate of FTX’s balance history because there may be wallet addresses that haven’t been disclosed to the public.
FTX’s average total balances between Oct. 1 and Nov. 4 was $7.9 billion, and stood at $8.4 billion as of Nov. 5, Arkham data shows. The balances then dropped considerably to $1.1 billion as of Nov. 10.
The rush for the exits coincided with a steep plunge in the price of the FTX’s in-house exchange token, FTT.
From Oct. 1 through Nov. 4, the FTT price ranged from a lower bound of $22 and an upper bound of $26. Then, all of a sudden, the floor fell out: FTT had sunk to about $2 as of press time.
Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF) tweeted Thursday that FTX “saw roughly $5 [billion] of withdrawals on Sunday.”
The immense scope of this black swan-style event serves as a key reminder of just how rapidly confidence can erode in the parallel financial universe of digital assets – where there are no central banks to bail out the key players – as happened in 2008 when nearly all of Wall Street ran short of liquidity and had to turn to the Federal Reserve for emergency funding.
Drilling down, the balance of ether (ETH) on FTX has fallen some 88%, according to the blockchain analytics firm Nansen.
As of Nov. 10 at press time, FTX holds 50,544.94 ETH ($66.5 million) at time of press, down from 429,210.46 ETH ($564.8 million) on Nov. 4, the data shows.
From Oct. 21 to Nov. 4, users deposited 290,820 ETH and withdrew 15,803 ETH. With 18.4x more ETH deposits than withdrawals in that time period, user confidence in FTX was solid, but this rapidly changed.
It is no surprise FTX’s bitcoin (BTC) balance also took a sharp fall.
Even as bitcoin’s price held steady around $20,000 earlier in the week, FTX’s BTC holdings started nosediving on Nov. 7, according to data from Coinglass. FTX held 21,850 bitcoins across all exchanges on Nov. 6, and by the next day, FTX’s balance dropped to virtually nil.
Around the same time, bitcoin’s price started falling, as crypto analysts fretted that larger cryptocurrencies might get caught up in a broader wave of selling across digital-asset markets.
On Nov. 6, BTC was changing hands around the $21,000 level. It tumbled close to $15,000, but had recovered to about $17,400 as of press time."
318,95,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/without-details-trons-justin-sun-says-hes-putting-together-solution-for-ftx/,"Without Details, Tron's Justin Sun Says He's 'Putting Together Solution' for FTX",Binance announced it would not acquire FTX earlier Wednesday.,2022-11-10,"Justin Sun, the founder of the Tron cryptocurrency network and Grenada's ambassador to the World Trade Organization, tweeted late Wednesday that he and his team were ""putting together a solution"" with beleaguered cryptocurrency exchange FTX, hours after Binance announced it would not move forward in a deal to acquire the company.
Sun provided no details, only saying that his team ""has been working around the clock to avoid further deterioration."" Sam Bankman-Fried, the CEO of FTX, retweeted Sun's tweet.
Further to my announcement to stand behind all Tron token (#TRX, #BTT, #JST, #SUN, #HT) holders on #FTX, we are putting together a solution together with #FTX to initiate a pathway forward. @FTX_Official
Sun's tweet did not make clear whether this solution would rescue FTX as an entity or only backstop the Tron-related tokens held on the exchange.
FTX stunned the crypto industry on Tuesday when founder Bankman-Fried announced that it was facing liquidity issues only days after tweeting that the exchange was ""fine."" At the time, Bankman-Fried said he had come to an agreement to conduct a transaction with Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, the founder of Binance. CZ later clarified it was a nonbinding letter of intent to acquire FTX.
Binance backed away from the deal earlier on Wednesday, saying that after looking at FTX's books, ""the issues are beyond our control or ability to help.""
Read more: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried’s Crypto Empire Blur on His Trading Titan Alameda’s Balance Sheet
Questions arose about FTX sister company Alameda Research's solvency after CoinDesk published a report on its balance sheet, finding that a hefty chunk of Alameda Research's assets were composed of the FTT token, an exchange token issued by FTX. Bankman-Fried and other FTX and Alameda executives sought to downplay the concerns over the next week, before Bankman-Fried's surprise announcement.
As a result of the scuttled Binance agreement announcement, numerous regulatory agencies have hinted that they are investigating or broadening investigations into the company, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. These agencies are looking at how FTX handled client funds, among other concerns, according to reports from Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal."
319,91,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/10/the-role-regulators-played-in-the-ftx-fiasco/,The Role Regulators Played in the FTX Fiasco,The collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's blockchain empire is a direct result of crypto’s centralized development and lack of U.S. regulations.,2022-11-10,"Does crypto need a backstop? Wednesday, in what in hindsight should be obvious, Binance pulled out of a tentative deal to buy out rival FTX, the crypto exchange founded by Sam Bankman-Fried that has lost just about everything following a bank run.
Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao said after a preliminary review of FTX’s books that the risks were too big, the holes in the exchange’s balance sheet too large and the loss of investors’ confidence “severe.” That has left Bankman-Fried to search elsewhere for capital – a monumental ask, considering other exchanges have already turned down appeals for investments or mergers.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
On Twitter, Bankman-Fried said he’d do what he can to shore up users’ losses before reimbursing investors, in part by “winding down” his hedge fund Alameda Research. FTX, now worth approximately $1, according to Bloomberg’s billionaire team, had raised $1.8 billion from the likes of BlackRock, SoftBank, Tiger Global and the Ontario (Canada) Teachers' Pension Plan.
The potential contagion here is severe. Firms like Sequoia and Galaxy Digital are writing off millions of dollars, Solana (aka “SamCoin”) is buckling and dozens of projects in which SBF invested, often using the FTT exchange token, could have massive treasury shortfalls.
Read more: Who Still Has Exposure to FTX?
As crypto learned with the collapse of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, the industry is remarkably interconnected. In fact, emerging evidence suggests Alameda’s financial troubles began after losing half a billion dollars to Voyager Digital, which SBF later bought out, which had collapsed after Terra imploded.
The whole point of crypto was to enable people to “be their own bank” through self-custody and self-reliance. Instead, the industry has recreated the centralized financial system – “bank runs” and all. Instead of interacting directly with blockchains and peers, people park their funds on centralized exchanges. Instead of using trustless financial protocols, they put their faith in megalomaniac personalities with Wall Street credentials.
In the wake of the most recent crypto crisis, three U.S. regulators – the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) – are reportedly deepening investigations into FTX, some of which had begun months ago.
SEC Chairman Gary Gensler used this moment almost to gloat, noting the “toxic combination” at play at FTX, in an interview with CNBC. He reiterated familiar lines that cryptos are securities and should be under his agency’s supervision, that the industry has been “significantly non-compliant” and exchanges should “come in and talk to us.”
To some extent, Gensler is right in saying that rules already exist that would protect crypto investors. It’s notable that FTX.US, the independently operated wing of SBF’s trading empire, seems to be solvent. Of course, it could blow up tomorrow, but something tells me SBF wouldn’t have played the same shenanigans with FTX.US users’ funds as he seems to have done with the parent company – no matter how sleep-deprived he was.
And yet, any account of the situation has to note the role U.S. crypto regulation (or the lack of it) has played in the FTX fiasco. Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong argued on Twitter that the simultaneously stringent-yet-unclear regulatory landscape pushed people like Terra’s Do Kwon and Bankman-Fried overseas, where oversight is lax and taxes go unpaid. Some 95% of crypto trading occurs outside the U.S., he said.
Armstrong is protecting his own interests here, now that figures like Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Gensler are calling for tighter regulation of U.S. exchanges. Clearer rules are clearly needed but have to be done right. Given the inherently borderless nature of crypto, if regulators get overly burdensome, they would only succeed in creating the next Singapore-based Terra or Bahamas-based FTX. “[P]unishing U.S. companies for this makes no sense,” Armstrong added.
What also makes no sense is the SEC’s history of enforcement actions. This year, as the industry burned, the SEC sued Kim Kardashian for promoting Ethereum Max (a coin few will remember) and something called Hydrogen Technology Corp. Given the agency’s notably small budget, even if these lawsuits are successful it still comes across as a waste of resources.
See also: 8 Days in November: What Led to FTX's Sudden Collapse
Another “win” for the SEC, this time against blockchain-based streaming service called LBRY, is likely a loss for all other projects looking to use tokens to reward users and fund development. According to legal experts, the judge overseeing the case may have set a precedent to punish any project that has a stock of its own assets – including Beanie Baby maker TY. LBRY CEO Jeremy Kauffman is a New Hampshire homesteader who intends to fight the decision, but how many other projects will just move elsewhere?
And so, if regulation is an insufficient backstop, and if the intermingling and increasing connections between crypto firms only serves to create contagion risks rather than fail-safes, where does that leave the industry? Could crypto benefit from a central bank, a buyer of last resort? Something tells me the answer is in returning to Satoshi’s original proposition."
320,253,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/10/trons-trx-token-jumps-140-amid-ftx-redemption-of-tron-based-tokens/,Tron's TRX Jumps 140% Amid 1:1 FTX Redemption of Tron-Based Tokens,FTX announced that Tron-based assets could be moved to external wallets.,2022-11-10,"TRX, the native token of the Tron network, surged over 140% on cryptocurrency exchange FTX, from 12 cents to 29 cents after Tron founder Justin Sun agreed to move Tron-based assets from FTX to external wallets.
“We are pleased to announce that we have reached an agreement with Tron to establish a special facility to allow holders of tron (TRX), bittorrent (BTT), just (JST), sun (SUN) and huobi token (HT) to swap assets from FTX 1:1 to external wallets,” FTX tweeted Thursday.
Holders of those tokens can redeem their assets starting at 18:30 UTC (1:30 pm ET), FTX said.
“We hope this is just step one: beginning to find ways to bring liquidity to users,” FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried said on Twitter. “That is the core thing that I am fighting for right now, and will continue to fight for in whatever ways I can.”
On Wednesday, TRX momentarily jumped 4,000% to a 24-hour high of $2.50 on speculation that Tron-based assets would be redeemed on a 1:1 basis by Sun, but fell back to near zero levels later in the day.
Tron had its own issues Wednesday evening when the network’s algorithmic stablecoin USD (USDD) slid below its peg and fell as low as 97 cents on multiple crypto exchanges. USDD was recently trading at 98 cents. Stablecoin competitor tether (USDT) also lost its peg briefly and dropped to 97 cents, but has rebounded since."
321,107,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/10/ftxs-effective-altruism-future-fund-team-resigns/,FTX's 'Effective Altruism' Future Fund Team Resigns,"In an open letter, the team said it was unable to perform their work or process grants and have ""fundamental questions"" about the legitimacy and integrity of business operations.",2022-11-10,"The team behind the FTX Future Fund, one of the exchange giant's philanthropic arms, resigned on Thursday in an open letter, posted to Twitter by journalist Teddy Schleifer.
The group wrote that it was ""devastated that it looks like there are many committed grants that the Future Fund will be unable to honor.""
""We are so sorry that it has come to this,"" the letter said, adding: ""To the extent that the leadership of FTX may have engaged in deception or dishonesty, we condemn that behavior in the strongest possible terms. We believe that being a good actor in the world means striving to act with honesty and integrity.""
The decision adds to the fallout from FTX's dramatic liquidity problems. FTX fell under scrutiny last week after CoinDesk reported that the balance sheet of its sister company, Alameda Research was overly weighted with FTX's FTT token.
FTX founder and CEO Sam Bankman-Fried has tried to brand himself as the world's ""most generous billionaire"" and pledged to donate a significant amount of his wealth and make significant corporate donations. FTX ran two philanthropic arms.
The FTX Foundation, a traditional charity, has donated to health, pollution and climate initiatives. The FTX Future Fund has supported moonshot projects in fields like biosecurity and AI safety focused on ""long-term improvements for humankind."" In March, FTX said it was going to deploy $1 billion through the Future Fund at a rate of $100 million a year.
During the bull market, some thought that Web3 wealth would power a new generation of philanthropy, similar to how Web2 spurred the creation of organizations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Bankman-Fried has seen his personal wealth plummet by nearly 94% amid the rapid devaluation of FTX and FTT, and vanished from the Bloomberg Billionaires Index earlier this week. He might be worth even less now, given how one prominent VC that invested in FTX marked down its investment value to zero."
322,61,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/11/heres-what-ftx-and-alameda-now-hold-on-public-ethereum-wallets/,Here’s What FTX and Alameda Now Hold on Public Ethereum Wallets,"FTX’s biggest holding remains its own FTT token, while Alameda’s largest holdings are in USD coin.",2022-11-11,"Crypto exchange FTX's and its sister trading arm Alameda Research’s wallet holdings have significantly dwindled in the past week following liquidity issues, illicit loans between each other, customer withdrawals and a market decline.
FTX, which now faces insolvency, is seeking nearly $10 billion in external funding a week after CoinDesk first reported how funds were spread between the exchange and Alameda. The report led to a cascade of events, with crypto markets tanking, Alameda winding down trading and FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried losing most of his wealth.
Ethereum-based token data on Dune Analytics, which refers to a list initially compiled by The Block, shows the current state of wallet holdings held by the two firms. The data serves as the lower bound of the current wallet holdings, crypto investment firm 21Shares said, meaning it doesn't represent the entirety of all assets held by the two companies.
FTX holds over $600 million in wallets tracked by Dune, a 76% decline since last week’s $2.6 billion figure. It holds over $100 million of that in FTT, its native exchange token, whose price has plunged 80% in the past week. The data was updated during Asian morning hours on Friday.
The large FTT holdings are at the center of what initially ignited the crisis. FTX allegedly used FTT to backstop losses made by Alameda during May alongside its equity holdings in Robinhood Markets (HOOD), apart from illicitly using customer funds.
In addition, FTX holds $69 million in USD coin (USDC), $61 million in paxos gold (PAXG) and $50 million in DAI, a decentralized stablecoin. It holds over $40 million of ether (ETH) and staked ether (stETH) each.
On the other hand, Alameda’s $146 million public wallet is full of stablecoin holdings. It holds over $60 million in USDC and over $35 million spread over true USD (TUSD), tether (USDT) and dai (DAI).
Alameda holds over $33 million in BitTorrent’s BTT tokens. Justin Sun, who owns BitTorrent and founded the Tron blockchain, said Thursday he would honor redemptions of Tron-based assets like TRX and BTT from FTX on a 1:1 basis, even as withdrawals of other assets remain paused.
Alameda’s relatively smaller holdings include $5 million in staked Sushi (XSUSHI), $3 million in Ethereum staking service token lido (LDO) and just under $3 million in serum (SRM). It holds just $680,000 in ether."
323,98,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/11/market-wrap-bitcoin-returns-to-red-tumbling-7-on-ftx-collapse/,"Market Wrap: Bitcoin Returns to Red, Tumbling 7% on FTX Collapse",Other cryptos also fell as investors digested the latest developments in the crypto exchange giant’s unraveling.,2022-11-11,"FTX crashed. Cryptocurrency prices tumbled on Friday as fretful investors returned to their defensive postures of earlier in the week.
Bitcoin (BTC) was recently trading at about $16,675, down nearly 7%. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was still hovering near $17,000 when CoinDesk reported that FTX, the once-widely revered exchange, had filed for bankruptcy after a fruitless search for a rescuer. The ongoing fallout for an already shellshocked crypto sector remains uncertain.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
“The collapse of FTX and the uncertainty it has brought to the industry has been another damaging blow,” wrote Craig Erlam, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda. “How damaging it will be will depend on what further details appear in the coming days but right now, prices remain under pressure and vulnerable to further sharp declines.”
Ether (ETH) was recently changing hands just above $1,260, off more than 4.5%. Most other major cryptos by market value spent their day in the red, victims of FTX contagion. FTX’s FTT token recently plunged more than 30% to approach its low perch from earlier in the week.
As CoinDesk reported, the Solana blockchain’s SOL token, one of the hardest-hit digital assets this week, slid nearly 12%. SOL’s decline stemmed from speculation about Solana’s close connection to Alameda Research, a trading firm that was founded by FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried. SOL was Alameda's second-largest holding, according to Riyad Carey, a research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, dropped 4.2%.
Equity markets continued their momentum from Thursday, especially the tech sector. The Nasdaq rose 1.8%, while the S&P 500 increased 0.9%.
Yet, consumer attitudes about the U.S. economic future slumped in November, according to the University of Michigan’s much-watched monthly consumer sentiment index. The index had risen unsteadily in recent months after falling to an all-time low in June.
Although buoyed by stocks’ recent rise, Oanda’s Erlam noted that investor “sentiment [could] cool again in the coming weeks.”
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Since 2015, BTC’s RSI has fallen between 30 and 50 on 1,005 occasions. Since 2017, ETH’s RSI has maintained the same range 682 times.
The average 30-day performance following those occurrences since that time has been -1.1% for ETH and 3.03% for BTC.
Bitcoin and ether’s respective $20,000 and $1,300 support levels of a week ago will now likely represent resistance.
Read the full technical take here.
Ether Turns Deflationary as Amount of ETH Burned Spikes Amid FTX-Induced Market Volatility: Ether (ETH)'s net supply increase has turned negative for the first time since the Merge. There has been a recent increase in Ethereum network activity prompting an uptick in the amount of ether burned. The latest increase in network usage could be attributed to market volatility triggered by the collapse of the cryptocurrency exchange FTX. Read more here.
Solana Volatility Returns After FTX Bankruptcy, But What Comes Next?: The Solana blockchain’s SOL token has been hit hard this week amid a sell-off across crypto markets triggered by the collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s business empire. The SOL price was down 50% in the past seven days. The volatility has sparked a debate over Solana’s long-term future. Read more here.
Crypto.com Preliminary Audit Shows That 20% of Its Assets Are in Shiba Inu Coin: As large crypto exchanges push to prepare “proof-of-reserves” audits, an initial effort reveals just how much of Crypto.com’s reserves are in the dog-inspired meme ERC-20 token, SHIB. Of the $2.88 billion in total assets in the wallets, roughly $558 million, or about 20%, are in SHIB, according to the graphic. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and an inside look at the fast and loose kids who ran the FTX empire.
Bitcoin Slides Anew After FTX Bankruptcy Filing: The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) dropped 3.3% during early U.S. trading hours on Friday.
From Enron to FTX: Wall Street Turnaround Titan John Jay Ray III Takes Reins from FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried: Sam Bankman-Fried handed over control of his company to the veteran Wall Street bankruptcy lawyer who will guide the company’s Chapter 11 process.
Justin Sun Moved $6M Stablecoins From TrueFi Lending Pools Before FTX-Alameda Bankruptcy: Bankrupt trading firm Alameda Research has $7.2 million in outstanding debt from a TrueFi credit facility.
FTX Withdraws US CFTC Derivatives Clearing Plan, Bloomberg Reports: The company previously submitted a plan that it hoped would allow customers to assess and respond to derivatives risks in real time.
SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce: FTX’s Collapse Could Finally Be ‘Catalyst’ for Regulation: “Having the SEC and CFTC work together makes a lot of sense,” Peirce told CoinDesk TV.
Meet the Metaverse Night Club–Loving Audit Firm That Presided Over FTX’s Financials: FTX auditor Prager Metis reported the company earned $1 billion in revenues in 2021. An investigation by CoinDesk reveals Prager Metis also operates in Decentraland, where it sponsors the “Decentraland Babydolls.”
Crypto Investment Firm DCG Gives $140M Equity Infusion to Trading Firm Genesis: CoinDesk sister company Genesis reported earlier that its derivatives business has about $175 million in locked funds in its FTX trading account."
324,443,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/11/cryptocoms-preliminary-glimpse-of-token-reserves-reveals-20-in-shiba-inu-coin/,Crypto.com's Preliminary Glimpse of Token Reserves Reveals 20% in Shiba Inu Coin,"As large crypto exchanges push to prepare “proof-of-reserves” audits, an initial effort reveals just how much of Crypto.com’s reserves are in the dog-inspired meme token, SHIB.",2022-11-11,"The swift collapse of the FTX crypto exchange has sparked an industry push among big rivals to publish proof of their reserves as a means to provide transparency into the assets on their platforms.
With those efforts just getting underway, one firm, Crypto.com, has taken the proactive step of providing a preliminary set of disclosures – sharing wallet addresses with the blockchain analysis firm Nansen to create a dashboard of nearly $3 billion of reserves and other assets.
What that shows is just how heavily the mix of assets is skewed toward a meme-y token called shiba inu (SHIB), a digital asset built atop the Ethereum blockchain that was largely inspired by the joke token dogecoin (DOGE). Like DOGE – a key staple of billionaire Elon Musk’s crypto schtick on Twitter – the SHIB token is a highly volatile cryptocurrency whose primary use case is often considered to be speculation itself; it’s traded for fast profits and yuks.
Of the $2.88 billion in total assets in the wallets, roughly $558 million, or about 20%, are in SHIB.
The holding ranks second only to the $872 million of bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market value, which represents 31%. The amount exceeds the $487 million in ether (ETH), the second-biggest cryptocurrency, and dwarfs the $1.5 million in dogecoin, Nansen data suggests.
A Crypto.com spokesperson said, ""The reason our Proof of Reserves include Shiba is because we hold customers' balances 1:1. Thus, our Proof of Reserves are dictated by our customer holdings.""
Crypto.com’s large holding of SHIB is a “reflection of user interest/activity,” Nansen data journalist Martin Lee told CoinDesk via a Telegram message.
“In an ideal world, we’d want the best assets to be worth the most, but SHIB and DOGE both have extremely high market caps,” he said. So it’s “not super surprising that retail-heavy exchanges will have a higher concentration of such tokens. And regardless, as an exchange, your main source of revenue would likely be trading fees, so whether it’s meme coins or more fundamentally sound assets, your business model is intact.”
The shiba inu token vaulted into the headlines in May 2021 when Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin was sent roughly $1.2 billion of unsolicited SHIB tokens by creators of several dogecoin knock-offs, and then promptly regifted those to the India COVID-19 Relief Fund.
Despite its ridiculousness – or maybe because of it – the SHIB token is one of the most popular cryptocurrencies. The @Shibtoken account on Twitter boasts 3.6 million followers, and even after a swift sell-off across crypto markets the token still has a $5.74 billion market capitalization and a 24-hour trading volume of $347.9 million at press time, per CoinDesk data.
Read more: Shiba Inu Coin (SHIB), A Beginner’s Guide 2022
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 22:22:44 UTC): Includes a comment from a Crypto.com spokesperson
UPDATE (Nov. 12, 00:03:13 UTC): Updates headline by replacing ""Assets"" with ""Token Reserves"""
325,388,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/11/solana-volatility-returns-after-ftx-bankruptcy-but-what-comes-next/,"Solana Volatility Returns After FTX Bankruptcy, but What Comes Next?","The token, grappling with the market contagion, is down 4% in the past 24 hours.",2022-11-11,"The Solana blockchain’s SOL token, one of the hardest-hit digital assets this week amid a steep sell-off across crypto markets triggered by the swift collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s business empire, slid further on Friday after the one-time billionaire’s main holding company filed for bankruptcy protection.
SOL's price had tumbled to a record low earlier this week of around $12 and then surged 26% to as high as $19 on Thursday.
But on Friday, after the FTX bankruptcy news, the price was back down to around $16, off 6.4% on the day. The SOL price is down 50% in the past seven days.
The additional volatility has sparked a debate among crypto analysts and blockchain developers and executives over Solana’s long-term future, with nagging questions about the prospects for the blockchain and how severely it might be affected by this week’s fallout in the industry.
The SOL token’s recent price movements were tied to speculation about Solana’s close connection with Alameda Research, a trading firm that was founded by Bankman-Fried. SOL was Alameda's second-largest holding, according to Riyad Carey, a research analyst at crypto data firm Kaiko.
The theory was that Alameda might need to dump its SOL tokens to raise liquidity. SOL jumped Thursday after Solana Foundation postponed a plan to ""unstake"" 28.5 million SOL tokens – implying an immediate relief from additional selling pressure.
“Solana is more centralized than, say, Ethereum, as they are clearly limiting the amount unstaked to protect SOL’s price,” Carey told CoinDesk.
Crypto markets were also broadly down Friday; the CoinDesk Market Index was down 3%.
The swift decline in SOL doesn't represent the “death knell” for Solana, according to Alex Tapscott, managing director of the digital asset group at Ninepoint Partners.
He contrasted Solana with other blockchain projects where development is funded primarily by venture capitalists.
""I think a lot of these protocols do benefit from astroturfing by VCs,” he said, “like an illusion of grassroots growth when in fact it's all being underwritten by institutional money.""
“But I think it's not the case” for Solana, Tapscott said. With “tons of organic growth,” Solana will “have to survive on the merits of the technology and on the community.""
Marius Ciubotariu, a core contributor to Hubble Protocol and Kamino Finance on the Solana ecosystem, said, “Just as we saw with Ethereum and ETH in 2018, this current shakeout will purge Solana of pure price speculators and ensure that only those that are dedicated to the ecosystem are part of the next big wave of innovation and growth.”
Stefan Rust, CEO of blockchain technology firm Laguna Labs, said there’s speculation in the market that developers building on Solana might have had assets locked up on FTX and now can’t access those tokens.
It’s not clear yet if that’s the case, but if it were, according to Rust, “Given the extremely slow pace of bankruptcy proceedings, they may not have access to them for eight to 10 years.”
A spokesperson for the Solana Foundation told CoinDesk: ""The events of this week are unfortunate and will likely impact certain projects more than others, but the overall Solana ecosystem of thousands of developers is robust and diversified, and ecosystem projects continue to reiterate support for Solana and their commitment to building on Solana."""
326,438,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/11/ftxs-regional-crypto-exchanges-slowly-reopen-withdrawals/,FTX's Regional Crypto Exchanges Slowly Reopen Withdrawals,The exchange's Japan and Turkey subsidiaries are slowly allowing customers to withdraw small amounts to their bank accounts.,2022-11-11,"FTX Japan said it resumed yen withdrawals after Japanese regulator, the Financial Services Agency (FSA), expressed concern over the crypto exchange's health. Elsewhere, FTX Turkey said it was working on sending all Turkish lira balances to its customers.
FTX Japan made the announcement in a short statement on its website Friday. FTX Turkey communicated its message in a Friday tweet. On Thursday, the Turkish subsidiary said it would automatically convert user balances into Turkish lira at a 1:1 ratio.
Japan's FSA ordered FTX Japan to enter ""close-only"" mode on Thursday, meaning users should be able to wind up existing positions but not initiate new ones. In the order, the regulator noted that the exchange had halted withdrawals without specifying a date for reinstatement and that it continued to enlist new customers.
Under the circumstances, the regulator said it was uncertain about the company's health. It also required FTX Japan to stop accepting new customers and halt the exchange business.
These regional subsidiaries of FTX are wholly owned by FTX's 'mothership' in Antigua, FTX Trading Ltd, and license FTX's technology stack in exchange for royalty payments sent back to the Antigua-based parent. The regional exchanges are compliant with local laws surrounding securities, and thus offer a limited selection of tokens (similar to Binance's regional subsidiaries). Because of this compliance they can access local payment rails meaning that traders do not have to use expensive and slow SWIFT transfers to deposit or withdraw funds.
Some traders are known to treat these as a payment gateway for buying stablecoins, before sending them off to the main exchange for full-featured trading.
Withdrawals on FTX International remained paused as of Asian hours on Friday."
327,472,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/11/ftxs-fall-will-lift-the-next-generation-of-bitcoin-maximalists/,FTX's Fall Will Lift the Next Generation of Bitcoin Maximalists,"There is a real distinction between crypto and bitcoin, as many have learned this week.",2022-11-11,"The collapse of FTX has caused yet another destructive wave to wash over crypto – the world of altcoins, crypto exchanges and overleveraged entities.
It’s impossible to say at this point how much collateral damage the loss of what was once the third-largest crypto exchange – whose founder had a foot in the door in Washington, D.C., his face plastered on sports stadiums and subway stations as well as his fingers in untold financial pies – will bring.
BlockFi, which was rescued by FTX just months ago, has paused withdrawals, Genesis, a CoinDesk sister company, needs another lifeline and rumors are circulating that many Solana-based projects are facing insolvency. (Bankman-Fried was a notable supporter of SOL.)
Will Szamosszegi is founder and CEO of Sazmining.
The lesson to sufferers and outside witnesses alike is the same, and it is simple: Self-custody your bitcoin. Do not fall to the temptation of staking rewards, harebrained tokenomics schemes or the simplicity of using an exchange.
Bitcoin maximalists are called “toxic” for being so hardlined about this issue, but they've been proven right time and time again. A new generation of ardent bitcoin maximalists will be born from FTX's implosion.
During the summer of 2022, controversy struck the Bitcoin community regarding toxic maximalism: Partner at Castle Island Ventures (and CoinDesk columnist) Nic Carter (then a vocal bitcoin supporter) had participated in an investment in a Web3 wallet company, and was called out for building beyond bitcoin.
In response to his critics, Carter wrote a lengthy Medium article in which he distanced himself from the bitcoin maximalist community: “I am not a “bitcoin maximalist, I have never been one, I will never be one.” Entering and exiting the bitcoin community is voluntary, but on his way out Carter showed maybe he never understood bitcoin’s “toxicity.”
Bitcoiners certainly take up a few unapologetic, uncompromising stances. Tomer Strolight, editor in chief at Swan Bitcoin, has argued that bitcoin maximalists’ perceived toxicity is really just principled opposition. When maximalists criticize centralized crypto exchanges, curse the altcoin ecosystem or call creators of new tokens scam artists, they are actually working to uphold the integrity of the Bitcoin network.
Read more: The Collapse of the FTX Empire
For these views, bitcoiners have been called parochial. For instance, Stephan Livera, managing director of Swan Bitcoin, wrote in Bitcoin Magazine that maximalists are often criticized for not “understanding” the broader cryptocurrency ecosystem. This is incorrect because bitcoiners (many of them former “crypto” advocates) understand blockchains only too well.
There are technological limits to what blockchains can achieve, social contagions in crypto that foment scams and economic principles such as creating a viable alternative to fiat currencies at play. Bitcoiners think bitcoin eventually will become the next global reserve asset – and so can argue in good faith that playing with other cryptocurrencies or trusting one’s BTC to a third-party is a waste of one’s time at best and a dangerous risk at worst.
This hardline stance certainly looks good today because the broader crypto industry is facing its “Lehman moment.” Bitcoin maximalists are entirely correct that if all you did was buy bitcoin and store it in a hard wallet you would have placed yourself completely outside of FTX’s economic blast radius.
Read more: It’s Time to End Maximalism in Crypto / Opinion
One may quibble over bitcoin maximalists’ choice of words (like the vulgar term for a supposedly scat-related coin) but perhaps they have been strident for a reason. From their perspective, altcoins and “easy” crypto rewards have always had zero value, and the people selling you them have always been snake oil salesmen. Crypto calamities are always around the corner, and bitcoiners are only trying to warn others.
Many crypto enthusiasts who are suffering due to FTX’s implosion are likely to take a second look at all of the “toxic” messaging that bitcoin maximalists have been shouting from the rooftops. It could begin with a simple question. Were the maximalists right?
They will begin their journey anew, assuming they do not exit crypto entirely, no longer so susceptible to crypto scams. But if they keep an open mind, and try to return to the principles of decentralization, self-custody and self-reliance, they will find that bitcoin is unique.
It’s not just bitcoin’s origin story – the first “cryptocurrency” was founded by a pseudonymous developer who launched the network fairly and stepped away from his vast trove of tokens earned just like anyone else – that sets it apart. But also, what Bitcoin has become: A decentralized financial network that anyone can use, that’s governed transparently by predetermined rules and that no one can shut down. What is crypto in comparison?
Read more: Sam Bankman-Fried No Longer a Billionaire After $14.6B Wipeout: Bloomberg
Well, crypto is Sam Bankman-Fried: a (former) billionaire who lied to investors and his own users. Crypto is FTX: an underfunded exchange that provided little social or economic value even when it was in operation, that people trusted. Crypto is Alameda Research: a hedge fund that in all probability traded against FTX users, backed dubious projects and had a hole so big in its balance sheet it swallowed the crypto industry.
The new generation of ardent bitcoin maximalists born from FTX’s ashes will, in time, hold their bitcoin keys on their own wallets (perhaps a Trezor or Ledger) and they will not be susceptible to Ponzi schemes propped up by the reputation of whoever the next paper billionaire with his/her own coin.
The pain felt right now is real. The feeling of having been deceived must be unbearable. But know that whatever shame, guilt, anger, depression or rage you have ties back to one source. Bankman-Fried got away with his lies for so long because “crypto” itself is built on a lie: What calls itself a revolution is really just the fiat system par excellence. Satoshi Nakamoto started a new network that makes double-counting impossible because everyone has the same view of what’s going on. It exists, while crypto can vanish.
This is the free market in action: Mistakes are punished and correct choices are rewarded. Both ideologically and economically, this week’s crypto fallout have only strengthened bitcoin and its advocates’ argument."
328,422,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/11/cosmos-founder-jae-kwon-says-he-is-against-proposed-changes-to-atom-token/,Cosmos Blockchain Founder Jae Kwon Opposes Proposed Changes to ATOM Token,"The changes would introduce ""liquid staking"" to the system.",2022-11-11,"Jae Kwon, founder of the Cosmos blockchain, said he is against proposed changes that would introduce liquid staking to the system.
The introduction of liquid staking, which would allow holders of Cosmos’ ATOM token to use derivative tokens to earn rewards elsewhere, is unjustified, Kwon said in an interview with CoinDesk. Passing what’s known as Proposition 82 would create a dangerous precedent of minting a “scandalous” number of new tokens – ATOM2.0 – to a treasury that is controlled by select insiders.
“The extreme risks of this should be abundantly clear to everyone,” especially given the current contagion in crypto markets caused by the collapse of the FTX crypto exchange and its sister company Alameda Research, he said.
In September, Cosmos released a white paper that proposed major expansions to the utility of the Cosmos Hub – the blockchain that sits at the center of the ecosystem. Voting on the contentious reforms ends Monday, with votes 2-to-1 in favor of the proposal as of Friday.
Read more: New Cosmos White Paper Revamps Cosmos Hub, ATOM Token
“In an ecosystem with one of the most advanced systems of governance like Cosmos, changes affecting the development of the Cosmos Hub and placing its security and dependability at risk, as well as radical changes to its monetary policy, must be thoroughly examined from all angles and broken down into individual components to be assessed one by one – not grouped together in an omnibus white paper proposed by a centralized committee,” Kwon said in emailed comments.
The Cosmos Hub continues to display resilience and economic security because the ATOM tokens are bonded and not earning yield or absorbing losses in a high-risk over-leveraged environment, he said.
“We need to ensure that such a harmful division of the Cosmos community does not happen again,” and the way to do that is by creating a constitution, he added.
Read more: Coinbase Says It’s Wary of Suggested Changes to ATOM’s Monetary Policy"
329,286,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/11/ftx-lesson-crypto-needs-the-press-the-press-needs-crypto/,"FTX Lesson: Crypto Needs the Press, the Press Needs Crypto","CoinDesk played a central role in this week’s FTX meltdown, following our coverage of Alameda Research’s suspect balance sheet last week. But the crypto industry's maturation and eventual success requires that we flesh out these unstable structures and bad practices.",2022-11-11,"Journalists don’t like to be the story. We prefer to tell it.
But with CoinDesk playing a central role in this week’s FTX meltdown – following Ian Allison’s bombshell on Alameda Research’s suspect balance sheet last week – I got to thinking that we media folk may have to be the story this time around. So, let’s examine journalism’s place in the crypto industry. TLDR: It’s complicated, to say the least.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
On the one hand, there’s an unreasonable hostility toward journalists in some quarters of the crypto community. It’s exacerbated by a blinkered, self-interested perspective fostered by price-dependent online communities and by a tech utopianism popular in Silicon Valley. This anti-press mindset breeds conspiracy theories and, in steering everyone into the confines of the subcommunities gathered around their pet investment projects, fuels a toxic fragmentation in which each clings to their own narrow version of the truth. It’s “my token, right or wrong.”
This was evident in the unfounded charges laid against CoinDesk on Twitter by people alarmed by the fallout from the FTX revelations: the Alameda story was “fake news”; CoinDesk ran a story planted by Binance to play its “games”; it was a clear case of FUD (stories sowing fear, uncertainty and doubt) to undermine confidence in the market.
(Needless to say, those charges are all patently untrue. I shouldn’t need proof, but the haste with which Binance abandoned its buyout of FTX laid bare how bad FTX and Alameda's finances truly were at the time of Ian Allison’s report.)
Watch: Crypto Exchange FTX Files for Bankruptcy Protection in US; CEO Bankman-Fried Resigns
On the other hand, the multiyear story of FTX’s rise and fall, now culminating in stunning evidence of gross misuse of users’ funds, reminds us that journalists can fall victim to the blindness of hero worship. Tough questions should have been asked earlier of FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried. Alameda Research’s phantom balance sheet, propped up with a self-issued currency from sister company FTX, was there in plain sight and we in the press failed to see it until now. Too many accepted the fairytale story of the altruistic “SBF” wunderkind.
It’s noteworthy that this story broke just after a tweet from privacy activist Edward Snowden highlighted a history of Central Intelligence Agency representatives abusing the trust of journalists – and their inability to verify those agents’ privileged-access claims – to sow disinformation. It’s also in the vein of how local television news takes police reports of violence at face value, the social injustice of which was highlighted in a recent episode of John Oliver’s ”This Week Tonight” show on HBO.
Both sides need introspection, in other words: critics of the press and the press itself.
Let me start with the lesson for press critics. These include the token investors who barge their way into CoinDesk reporters’ Twitter mentions to accuse them of bias or corruption or stupidity just because they didn’t cover some protocol development of non-fungible token drop that to their biased perspective is the “biggest untold story in crypto.”
My message to them: Try, maybe, to step outside the narrow confines of your financial interests and look at the bigger picture. It is not the crypto press’s role to protect or promote the participants in an NFT project, the short-term financial interests of FTT investors or bitcoin HODLers. It is to bring transparency to the companies and other institutions that hold influence over how this industry and its markets function, regardless of price impact. That responsibility extends both to what we choose to cover and what we choose not to cover.
Transparency exposes malfeasance and entails reporting on otherwise hidden corporate accounts that reveal fragile finances. In the biggest cases, such as that of this past week, doing so will mean that a house of cards will inevitably fall, and, along with it, token prices. But sooner or later these issues would be revealed anyway.
Read more: FTX Showed the Problems of Centralized Finance, and Proved the Need for DeFi
It’s better if these revelations can be revealed sooner, because then we can learn the lessons and react accordingly. Can more effective regulation be introduced to protect consumers? What can investors learn about token valuation? Is it time to “do your own research?”
If the crypto industry is to mature, and if its underlying technology is to live up its vast potential, we must flesh out these unstable structures and bad practices. Sorry. There is no free lunch.
This is the purpose that we at CoinDesk have set for ourselves. Like any media company, we strive to be profitable, but the route to that is defined by a broader mission: to lead the narrative on the development of this industry by bringing transparency to the global movement that’s driving it. We see this honest, warts-and-all exposure as our contribution to the better world that this technology has the potential to support.
Now for our own introspection.
“Trust, but verify” was a term – lifted, ironically, from a Russian proverb – made popular by former U.S. President Ronald Reagan during his negotiations with the Soviet Union over nuclear disarmament. In the late 1990s, cryptographer Adam Back and entrepreneur Austin Hill, who later co-founded Blockstream, paraphrased the line to rewrite it as “Don’t Trust. Verify.” The negative wording was stronger for a reason, based on the notion that reliance on a third party with the capacity to censor, change or control information is dangerous.
The imperative to verify was a nod to cryptographic tools such as zero-knowledge proofs, with which people can prove the veracity of information without having to trust assurances from those with an interest in lying to you.
The thinking behind the first, Reagan-era coinage is something all journalists should embrace as a matter of course. It’s the “show me the money” idea. You don’t necessarily assume your source is untrustworthy but, without some other independent means of verification, you simply can’t run with the information they provide.
The problem is that it is often difficult, if not impossible, to obtain independent verification because all means of communication around the relevant topic are controlled by the party you’re covering. It’s the problem of “asymmetric information” that underpins U.S. securities laws: those with the data have the power to control how it is used. And that’s where the dependence on powerful people kicks in, which then gets distorted by the hero worship identified above.
This is where cryptography comes into play. Already, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao, better known as CZ, is declaring that his exchange is embracing a “proof of reserves” model based on the cryptographic instrument of Merkle trees and calling on others to follow suit. This would presumably offer anyone, including an investigating journalist, a tamper-proof source of information on a company’s assets.
Read more: Crypto Exchanges Scramble to Compile 'Proof of Reserves' as FTX Contagion Grips Markets
There are also efforts afoot to bring blockchain verification of evidence trails into journalism, notably by the Starling Project at Stanford University, while other projects – including Refound, a winner of the Web3athon launched at CoinDesk’s Consensus this year – apply encryption solutions to protect journalists’ information gathering from snoopers.
If such tools become the norm, a “Don’t Trust. Verify” standard could arise in journalism. Claims from powerful people need no longer be taken at face value.
But although there are some cryptographic tools that journalists can independently apply to their truth-seeking efforts, it really can’t be up to them to fix this. We need an overhaul of the system for recording and proving information, and that requires change by the investigated, not by the investigators. In reality, it needs regulation, or at the very least industry-driven self-regulation, to change practices.
So let’s hope that, for transparency and the healthy growth of this industry, regulators will look to zero-knowledge proofs, Merkle trees and encryption to impose crypto-savvy data requirements on entities operating in this space.
In the meantime, please support the journalists who are working against an asymmetric information system to try to bring transparency to this industry."
330,481,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/11/ftx-files-for-bankruptcy-protections-in-us/,FTX Files for Bankruptcy Protection in US; CEO Bankman-Fried Resigns,Bankruptcy filings attributed to FTX US and Alameda Research estimate each company has $10 billion to $50 billion in liabilities.,2022-11-11,"CORRECTION (Nov. 11, 21:39 UTC): Corrects second to last paragraph to remove mention of BitPesa as it was incorrectly included in the bankruptcy filings. Adds comments from BitPesa.
Crypto exchange FTX filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S., the Bahamas-based company said Friday.
CEO and founder Sam Bankman-Fried also resigned his role, but will ""assist in an orderly transition."" John Ray III is the new CEO. Ray appears to be the same individual who previously oversaw the Enron Corporation bankruptcy.
""In the short term we have some long days and hard work ahead of us,"" Ray told employees in a message verified by CoinDesk. He called the bankruptcy filing ""the beginning of a path forward.""
Respective bankruptcy filings said FTX US and Alameda Research had between $10 billion and $50 billion in liabilities and a similar range in assets, and estimated that ""funds will be available for distribution to unsecured creditors.""
Read More: 8 Days in November: What Led to FTX’s Sudden Collapse
FTX Group entities, which include the FTX.com entity as well as FTX US, Alameda Research and “approximately 130 additional affiliated companies,” have filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, according to a press release. Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings are filed when the company hopes or expects to be able to restructure its operations, rather than Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceedings, which just liquidates assets.
Companies filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy are able to continue their day-to-day operations.
In a Twitter thread posted after the bankruptcy, Bankman-Fried apologized, saying ""hopefully things can find a way to recover.""
1) Hi all:

Today, I filed FTX, FTX US, and Alameda for voluntary Chapter 11 proceedings in the US.
""I'm piecing together all of the details, but I was shocked to see things unravel the way they did earlier this week,"" he said. ""I will, soon, write up a more complete post on the play by play, but I want to make sure that I get it right when I do.""
FTX Digital Markets, FTX Australia, FTX Express Pay and LedgerX (which does business as FTX US Derivatives) are not included, the release said.
“The FTX Group has valuable assets that can only be effectively administered in an organized, joint process,” Ray said in a statement. “I want to ensure every employee, customer, creditor, contract party, stockholder, investor, governmental authority and other stakeholder that we are going to conduct this effort with diligence, thoroughness and transparency.”
Events have been “fast-moving” and the new team in place only just began, he said.
Read More: The Role Regulators Played in the FTX Fiasco
Bitcoin’s price immediately fell over $1,000 on news of the bankruptcy, dropping to $16,500 within minutes.
Bankman-Fried announced FTX had “liquidity” issues earlier this week, first saying Binance had agreed to acquire the company before Binance pulled out and later announcing a deal with Tron’s Justin Sun to backstop TRX-based tokens. The status of this deal was unclear at press time.
FTX paused withdrawals, though FTX US withdrawals remained unaffected. FTX reopened withdrawals in the Bahamas at regulators’ urging and began announcing certain other jurisdictions had begun some partial withdrawals over the last several hours.
The full list of companies include Alameda and various local holdings, Blockfolio, over a dozen FTX entities and Quoine, among others, according to a bankruptcy filing.
""I was shocked and disappointed to see that FTX named BTC Africa S.A. and other AZA Finance entities in its Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing today,"" said Elizabeth Rossiello, CEO and founder of BitPesa and AZA Finance in a statement. ""To be clear: AZA Finance entities are not affected by the FTX bankruptcy, and we are taking steps to correct the erroneous court filings,"" she added, noting that ""in its disorganized haste, FTX erroneously listed our entities in their bankruptcy filing.""
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 2022, 14:35 UTC): Adds context.
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 2022, 15:10 UTC): Adds further context.
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 2022, 15:30 UTC): Adds Twitter thread from Bankman-Fried."
331,212,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/11/bitcoin-sees-new-dip-after-ftx-bankruptcy-filing/,Bitcoin Slides Anew After FTX Bankruptcy Filing,The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) dropped 3.3% during early U.S. trading hours on Friday.,2022-11-11,"Cryptocurrencies across the board dropped sharply on news that troubled crypto exchange FTX filed for bankruptcy and CEO Sam Bankman-Fried left the company. The crypto market lost its $1 trillion market capitalization, dropping 18.3% to $803 billion.
Bitcoin (BTC) dropped about 7% to a 24-hour low of $16,351 during early U.S. trading hours. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) of 162 digital assets slid 3.3%, leaving it down 16% in November.
The decline partially reversed a big rally on Thursday, when a report showing slower-than-expected inflation in October gave bitcoin traders some relief. The largest cryptocurrency shot up about 10%, the biggest daily gain in two months.
As the bitcoin price has tumbled, many speculators have homed in on Michael Saylor’s MicroStrategy, and the losses likely to be adding up on the company’s bitcoin holdings, eating away at the company’s equity – and whether a capitulation might be in the offing.
In an interview with CNBC, Saylor said that bitcoin is still 33% higher than when he first bough it in 2020 and that he will continue to purchase and hold the asset. ""Our shareholders are winning, and we're going to stick with that strategy because it's working for us,” he said on Thursday.
Previously, Saylor acknowledged that the company would struggle to have enough bitcoin as collateral if the price dropped below $3,562, but that they could post other assets if that happened.
The FTX exchange's in-house token (FTT) – where the crisis of confidence first began to appear early this week in digital-asset markets – dropped another 33%. Huobi token (HT), which briefly gained 400% on Thursday amid news that Tron-based tokens would be redeemed 1:1 from FTX, fell 15% on Friday; Tron leader Justin Sun is a global advisor to Huobi and owns HT tokens. Dogecoin (DOGE) dropped over 11%.
The Solana blockchain’s SOL token fell 14.3% to $16.25. The SOL tokens were a major holding of Bankman-Fried's Alameda Research trading firm. Its token has been rocked by volatility over the past few days.
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 2022, 16:46 UTC): Updates prices.
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 2022, 17:59 UTC): Adds information about Michael Saylor.
UPDATE (Nov. 11, 2022, 21:00 UTC): Adds information about the drop in crypto's total market cap."
332,479,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/11/how-sam-bankman-frieds-effective-altruism-blew-up-ftx/,How Sam Bankman-Fried’s ‘Effective’ Altruism Blew Up FTX,"The Alameda Research and FTX founder believed he had singular insight into how to fix the world's problems. Instead, he wound up exemplifying them.",2022-11-11,"The ongoing collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire will have innumerable victims. One of the most important may be “effective altruism,” Bankman-Fried’s beloved philanthropic philosophy.
In very broad strokes, effective altruists believe that making a lot of money to influence the world is a noble goal as long as you’re very, very smart – and there is evidence that this mindset contributed to the decisions that have cost Bankman-Fried’s victims billions of dollars.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Late Thursday, the team behind FTX’s philanthropic “Future Fund” resigned. The Future Fund was set up to help implement Bankman-Fried’s effective altruism playbook, but departing staff say it won’t have funds to deliver grants it had already approved.
The resigners wrote in an open letter that ""To the extent that the leadership of FTX may have engaged in deception or dishonesty, we condemn that behavior in the strongest possible terms. We believe that being a good actor in the world means striving to act with honesty and integrity.""
See also: Bankman-Fried's Cabal of Roommates in the Bahamas Ran His Crypto Empire
That’s a bleak thing for a philanthropy to have to write about its founder. But the problem for effective altruists is not just that one of their own behaved unethically. There is reason to believe that the ethos of effective altruism (sometimes shortened to “EA”) enabled and even encouraged the disaster at every step along the way.
Above all, Bankman-Fried’s frequent public emphasis on philanthropy helped him garner positive press, political influence and even investment. Reputation laundering through philanthropy is hardly unique to him, as explored by writer Anand Giridharadas in his recent book “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World.”
But effective altruism more specifically could have excused or encouraged behaviors that led to FTX’s downfall. Perhaps not least, Bankman-Fried more or less acknowledged in an infamous “Odd Lots” interview that many of the tokens trading on his platform were probably frauds.
That implies he and FTX were always facilitating harm to its users, but the neoliberal and utilitarian underpinnings of effective altruism allowed him to justify that as a matter of consumer freedom.
A less charitable summary of effective altruism, then, would be that it is little more than a fancy way of saying “the ends justify the means.” Effective altruism also encompasses an emphasis on “long-termism,” which can read like another excuse for mercenary corner-cutting today, so long as you commit your loot to improving tomorrow.
Bankman-Fried grew up in Silicon Valley, where long-termism is a pillar of the libertarian/neoliberal “Californian Ideology,” ideas seemingly shared by the likes of Marc Andreessen, Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk.
(For a longer dive into Bankman-Fried and the EA mindset, I recommend this Vice piece by Edward Ongweso Jr. and Jordan Pearson).
Effective altruism may even have provided a direct rationalization of a large, secret and illegal bailout loan to sister trading shop Alameda Research, which appears to have helped bring down FTX. One speculative but incisive comment circulating on Twitter laid out the effective altruism case for financial fraud:
“They all thought the risks were worth taking to accomplish the most they could for humanity … SBF thought he was someone who could do more for the world than others, and that it was his responsibility to bear that risk, and he convinced many others in the effective altruism movement to align with him.”
See also: With FTX Bloodied, Rival in US Regulatory Fight Adds Another Knife
Of course, the ugly truth is that it wasn’t Bankman-Fried “bearing that risk,” but the customers who trusted him. Bankman-Fried certainly could have made that mental and ethical error, because effective altruism also implies a messiah complex – in fact, “Savior complex” is in the title of a fawning profile published (and since deleted) by Sequoia Capital, one of FTX’s venture backers.
Effective altruism posits that making money by (almost) any means necessary is OK because you, Elon and Zuck and SBF are so brilliant that you absolutely should have all the power implied by billions of dollars in the bank.
But as we’ve discovered about all three of those false messiahs, convincing yourself that you’re brilliant doesn’t make it true."
333,506,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/11/ether-turns-deflationary-as-amount-of-eth-burned-spikes-amid-ftx-induced-market-volatility/,Ether Turns Deflationary as Amount of ETH Burned Spikes Amid FTX-Induced Market Volatility,Ether's net supply increase has turned negative for the first time since Merge.,2022-11-11,"Ether (ETH) has turned deflationary for the first time since the token's parent blockchain Ethereum changed how it processes transactions nearly two months ago.
Data from ultrasound.money shows the second-largest cryptocurrency's net issuance, or the annualized inflation rate, has dropped to 0.029%, indicating that the leading smart contract blockchain is now burning more ether than what's being minted.
The negative inflation rate means ether's net supply has declined by 5,598 since Ethereum transitioned to a proof-of-stake (PoS) consensus mechanism of verifying transactions from a proof-of-work (PoW) mechanism on Sept. 15. Ether's supply would have increased by nearly 670,000 had Ethereum continued to use the PoW mechanism.
The upgrade, dubbed Merge, put ether on the path to becoming a deflationary asset by replacing miners with validators as entities responsible for running the blockchain and causing a drastic reduction in the newly minted ETH. Ether's annualized inflation rate crashed from over 3.5% to nearly zero following the Merge.
The deflationary milestone, however, remained elusive for nearly two months before finally being reached, with the recent increase in the Ethereum network activity prompting an uptick in the amount of ether burned. That's a sign that ether's prospects as a deflationary asset heavily depend on the degree of network usage.
On Wednesday, more than 5,000 ETH was burned, the highest single-day tally since June, according to Etherscan. More than 13,000 ETH have been burned in the past three days alone. The Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP)-1559, implemented in August of last year, introduced a mechanism to burn a portion of fees paid by users. The EIP is essentially tied the amount of ether burned with the network usage.
The latest increase in network usage could be attributed to market volatility triggered by the collapse of the cryptocurrency exchange FTX. Millions of dollars worth of crypto funds have been moved on-chain ever since FTX's liquidity woes became public. On Thursday, FTX's select customers were allowed to withdraw funds through Ethereum.
The positive change in ether's tokenomics could help the cryptocurrency outperform bitcoin and the wider market once the FTX-induced panic subsides.
At press time, ether changed hands at $1,270, representing a 1.7% decline on the day, according to CoinDesk data."
334,271,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/12/tether-blacklists-mysterious-ftx-wallets-as-account-drainer-liquidates-matic-link-avax-holdings/,"Tether Blacklists Mysterious FTX Wallets as Account Drainer Liquidates MATIC, LINK, AVAX Holdings",Over $3.9m tether on Avalanche and $27.5m tether on Solana linked to the FTX account drainer has been blacklisted by Tether.,2022-11-12,"The entity behind mysterious fund movements related to FTX crypto wallets has started liquidating token holdings from various networks.
Over $12 million in chainlink (LINK) tokens were sold in early Asian hours across two transactions, shortly after reports of a hack at FTX. The entity gained just under $10 million after slippage – a term to describe losses taken by a market participant when receiving a different trade execution price than intended – implying the entity was rushing to liquidate funds.
#PeckShieldAlert A PeckShield community contributor has detected that the address 0x59ab...32b labeled as FTX Accounts Drainer has swapped 1,000,000 $Link (~$6.4M) for 4,139 $ETH ($5.15M), -$1M pic.twitter.com/uKg4BfySYa
Separately, activity tied to the account drainer’s wallets on the Polygon blockchain showed some 3 million MATIC tokens were sold for $2.4 million.
Stablecoin issuer Tether apparently blocked some funds tied to the account drainer’s wallets that sold tokens on Avalanche and Solana networks earlier this morning, pseudonymous blockchain sleuth ZachXBT pointed out on Twitter.
Over $3.9m tether (USDT) on Avalanche and $27.5m tether on Solana linked to the FTX account drainer has been blacklisted by Tether.
CoinDesk independently verified the code used by Tether to block such addresses and confirmed the blacklist.
Read more: Bankman-Fried’s Cabal of Roommates in the Bahamas Ran His Crypto Empire – and Dated. Other Employees Have Lots of Questions"
335,455,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/12/ftx-hack-spooks-solana-defi-community-igniting-revolution-at-alameda-controlled-serum-dex/,FTX Hack Sparks Revolution at Serum DEX as Solana Devs Plot Alameda's Ouster,Developers are scrambling to create a new version of the on-chain liquidity hub that has no ties to Sam Bankman-Fried’s burning empire.,2022-11-12,"Sam Bankman-Fried once called Project Serum, an on-chain crypto exchange that he created, the “truly, fully trustless” backbone of decentralized finance (DeFi) on the Solana blockchain. But trust in the fallen FTX chief’s once-mighty crypto liquidity engine has suddenly run dry.
On Saturday, DeFi protocols across the Solana ecosystem began unplugging from Serum for fear that they didn’t know who wielded control – a concern fueled by the late-Friday hack at FTX. The developers once associated with Serum have gone silent. Meanwhile, the protocol’s dependence on Bankman-Fried and his bankrupt companies Alameda and FTX loomed large.
The true power over Serum rested with FTX Group, which continues to hold the program update authority keys, people familiar with the matter said.
Spurred by this crisis, DeFi developers are now rushing to create a new version of Serum that they can govern without fear of interference – or influence – from FTX. Across Twitter, Telegram, Github and in private Discords, the Solana community is finding a way to salvage one of their blockchain’s key platforms for trading cryptocurrencies without a centralized exchange.
“The ecosystem is coming together to solve this problem right now,” said Ben Chow of the decentralized exchange aggregator Jupiter.
Serum is a pillar of Solana’s DeFi infrastructure: it's the trading ecosystem's primary central limit order book, a more efficient alternative to the ""automated market maker"" setup popular on DeFi exchanges. With help from big market makers such as Jump and Alameda, it has processed over $32 billion in volume this year, according to data site Nomics. But that activity has fallen off a cliff; it's seen just $3.5 million in trades in the last 24 hours, an 80% drop from the day before.
Last night’s apparent hack of FTX has shattered projects’ confidence in the original Serum, three people familiar with the matter told CoinDesk. There’s of course Serum’s not-so-secret ties to Bankman-Fried. But only his employees have the keys that control the protocol, two developers said.
“The hack shows that someone malevolent has access to private keys at FTX,” said the pseudonymous Rooter, a developer on the lending protocol Solend that gets token price data from Serum. He is one of three DeFi developers who said they fear Serum’s keys could be compromised, too.
“That would allow the hacker to rug the entire protocol. At this point things have gotten so crazy that anything is on the table,” he said.
This is purely speculative FUD:
If internal FTX private keys are compromised then it's entirely possible that serum's upgrade authority might also be. While I would like to see serum continue to survive despite the best efforts of its creator, it might be best to avoid for now
Lending protocol Solend, Jupiter, automated market maker Raydium, stablecoin swap shop Mercurial Finance and other Solana-based DeFi traders, as well as centralized entities including Phantom wallet, limited their exposure to Serum Saturday morning. They disconnected price data oracles, shut down token trading pools or ceased trading on its central limit order book.
Michael Morrell, an independent contributor to Serum who closely follows the protocol, said the likelihood that a malicious actor would compromise Serum’s codebase is low.
And yet fear rages on in the entire ecosystem. With key Mango Markets developer known as “Mango Max” leading the charge, some of Serum’s earliest contributors are now attempting to fork Serum and start it anew, sources said.
Their actions seek to restore trust in a not quite so decentralized exchange.
Serum was nominally governed by the vote of a community of holders of the project’s SRM token. But apart from voting on token grants, Serum’s so-called decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) had little actual authority over the protocol, according to the pseudonymous Crypto Notte, a contributor to the Vyper protocol. Proposals to change how Serum operated would pass and go nowhere, he said.
The FTX-backed contributors that once focused on Serum haven't been heard from in months and stand-ins from Bonfida, which inherited development duties, haven’t lived up to the task, developers said. But Serum worked pretty well – that’s all it needed to do. One source called it “feature-complete.”
In the past few months, Serum DAO had become a money tree for other protocols to shake token grants from, multiple sources in Solana DeFi said. Projects wanting to integrate with Serum would first suss out their proposal’s viability with major SRM holders and then pitch the community forum. Proposals that made it to a vote would usually pass with the backing of a single whale: a wallet that started with “Cuie.” That wallet was controlled by Alameda, according to Morrell, the independent contributor.
Another former developer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a small cadre of Alameda employees collectively decided how the Serum wallet would vote. The Cuie wallet single-handedly approved proposals at least 13 times, a review of Serum's governance history shows.
“It’s a sham that survives on backroom deals,” said a source whose project once secured a token grant from Serum DAO.
The protocol’s rubber-stamp governance styles manifested in its press strategy. On Oct. 15, 2021, Project Serum's press team (also FTX's) pitched a CoinDesk reporter on the community’s approval of a $100 million budget allocation – before the vote had even begun.
FTX was heavily invested in the success of Serum. According to the Financial Times, Bankman-Fried’s exchange held $2.2 billion in SRM tokens as of earlier this week.
In digital asset markets, the SRM token slid 8.3% on Saturday. It's fallen 62% already just this month alone, leaving the price down 91% on the year.
Despite its sluggish popularity and connections to Bankman-Fried, Serum isn’t the kind of project that Solana DeFi can walk away from and forget. Protocols that have been optimized for Serum still rely on it to function.
James Moreau, a key contributor at Jet protocol, said the project is nearly finished building a DeFi product that integrates with Serum.
“Trying to re-architect it for another platform makes no sense when it’s not even done,” he said. “I’d say we need to finish what we started and then assess the situation after.”
I hope the devs that depend on serum can come together and redeploy an immutable version asap.
A spokesperson for the Solana Foundation told CoinDesk the organization was following developers’ effort to “contain risks around Serum.”
The lead figure in that effort, Mango Max, declined to comment.
Their campaign is working to “fork” Serum – basically recreate its codebase and start it anew, according to Chow, the co-founder of Jupiter DEX. Major ecosystem developers will share program update authority, he said.
The community's slapdash effort to wrest Serum from FTX Group skirts around a less heroic notion: few made much ado about the not so decentralized exchange's many entanglements before this week's dumpster fire began. Still, Saturday’s crisis could lead to a new Serum with a more credible claim to decentralization. That is a positive, according to Chow.
“Probably better in the long run as Serum was languishing anyway,” he said."
336,31,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/12/the-epic-collapse-of-sam-bankman-frieds-ftx-exchange-a-crypto-markets-timeline/,The Epic Collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX Exchange: A Crypto Markets Timeline,Tracing the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) through key news developments in the swift unraveling of billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire shows just how quickly the speculation kept shifting.,2022-11-12,"After this week's shocking (and still-unfolding) developments in the crypto industry, including the rapid unraveling of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange and Alameda Research trading firm, analysts with CoinDesk Indices worked with CoinDesk journalists to put together an annotated chart of the movements in the 162-asset CoinDesk Market Index (CMI).
The chart (featured above) shows how digital-asset traders scrambled to keep up.
Here's a timeline of the events:
Nov. 2: CoinDesk publishes exclusive revealing key balance-sheet details of Sam Bankman-Fried's Alameda Research trading firm, showing it's heavily invested in the FTX exchange's FTT token.
Nov. 6: Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao says he's selling his remaining holdings of FTT tokens. (Minutes later, Caroline Ellison, CEO of Alameda Research, tweets that Alameda will buy Zhao's FTT tokens for $22 each.
Nov. 8: The FTT token price falls below $22.
Nov. 8: Binance announces non-binding letter of intent to buy FTX, subject to due diligence, easing the industry panic.
Nov. 9: CoinDesk is first to report Binance is strongly leaning against buying FTX after just a few hours of checking its books and loans.
Nov. 9: Binance officially walks away from the FTX deal.
Nov. 9: Without details, Justin Sun drops hints at saving FTX.
Nov. 10: Bankman-Fried says Alameda Research, the trading firm at the center of the drama, is being wound down.
Nov. 10: FTX assets frozen by Bahamian regulator.
Nov. 11: FTX files for bankruptcy protection in U.S."
337,129,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/12/crypto-fund-galois-capital-has-half-of-its-capital-trapped-on-ftx/,Crypto Fund Galois Capital Has Half of Its Capital Trapped on FTX,"The locked funds total around $40 million, according to co-founder Kevin Zhou.",2022-11-12,"Crypto hedge fund Galois Capital told CoinDesk in a Telegram message on Saturday that around half of its funds are stuck on FTX, the beleaguered crypto exchange which filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Friday.
The funds locked in FTX total around $40 million, Galois co-founder Kevin Zhou said.
Galois earned acclaim earlier this year for predicting the crash of Terra, the stablecoin ecosystem whose $60 billion collapse was one of the key reasons behind crypto's plunge into its present bear market.
Depending on how the bankruptcy proceedings progress, it may take a while for Galois – or any FTX investors – to retrieve any of their funds.
In a letter to Galois investors, Zhou wrote that it could take “a few years” for the firm to recover “some percentage” of its funds. “We will work tirelessly to maximize our chances of recovering stuck capital by any means,” he told investors.
FTX was, until recently, the second-largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume, and managed to earn a high degree of trust from sophisticated investors and institutional clients relative to other platforms.
Things started to go sour for FTX when leaked documents uncovered by CoinDesk showed that the firm’s sister company, Alameda Research, was collateralizing loans with illiquid tokens – including FTX’s own FTT token.
Eventually, a bank run ensued, revealing that FTX was not backing user funds 1:1 behind the scenes – meaning the firm could not honor withdrawal requests without billions in rescue capital.
Now, according to Zhou, Galois is considering whether it should continue operating as normal, pursue an acquisition or become a proprietary trading shop."
338,439,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/12/ftx-crypto-wallets-see-mysterious-late-night-outflows-totalling-more-than-380m/,'FTX Has Been Hacked': Crypto Disaster Worsens as Exchange Sees Mysterious Outflows Exceeding $600M,"FTX officials appeared to confirm rumors of a hack on Telegram, instructing users to delete FTX apps and avoid its website.",2022-11-12,"The collapse of FTX, already one of the most spectacular disasters in financial history, worsened as hundreds of millions of dollars were drained from the cryptocurrency exchange hours after it filed for bankruptcy.
More than $600 million was siphoned from FTX's crypto wallets late Friday. Soon after, FTX stated in its official Telegram channel that it had been compromised, instructing users not to install any new upgrades and to delete all FTX apps.
""FTX has been hacked. FTX apps are malware. Delete them. Chat is open. Don't go on FTX site as it might download Trojans,"" wrote an account administrator in the FTX Support Telegram chat. The message was pinned by FTX General Counsel Ryne Miller.
Read more: FTX CEO John Ray Confirms Late-Night Hack, Says Company Is Working With Law Enforcement
Hours later, Miller disclosed in a tweet that FTX US and FTX.com had been moving all their digital assets to cold storage because of the Friday bankruptcy. ""Process was expedited this evening – to mitigate damage upon observing unauthorized transactions,"" he said.
Many FTX wallet holders reported $0 balances in their FTX.com and FTX US wallets. FTX’s API appeared to be down, which could account for this. According to on-chain data, various Ethereum tokens as well as Solana and Binance Smart Chain tokens exited FTX's official wallets and moved to decentralized exchanges like 1inch. Both FTX and FTX US appear to be affected.
The transfers occurred on the same day that the firm filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. after apparently losing – or misappropriating – billions of dollars in user funds. Suspicions – which are conjecture at this point – circulated online about whether, rather than an outside attack, someone inside the company might've been responsible.
Read more: Bankman-Fried's Cabal of Roommates in the Bahamas Ran His Crypto Empire – and Dated. Other Employees Have Lots of Questions
On Twitter, members of the cryptocurrency community quickly began to speculate that the outflows could have been coordinated by a member of Bankman-Fried's inner circle, pointing out that the simultaneous and sophisticated hacks of FTX and FTX US are indicative of a potential inside job. Twitter sleuth ZachXBT tweeted Friday night that ""multiple former FTX employees confirmed to me that they do not recognize these transfers.""
Around midnight Eastern time, FTX's login portal was unavailable (though the site was still online) giving users a 503 error when they attempted to log in. A 503 error happens when the server is unavailable, commonly because it's down for maintenance or unavailable for access.
Read more: FTX Employees Worldwide Learned of Bankruptcy Along With the Public
UPDATE (Nov. 12, 2022, 06:00 UTC): Adds updates and details throughout.
UPDATE (Nov. 12, 2022, 14:21 UTC): Hours after the publication of this article, FTX said it had expedited the move of its remaining funds to cold wallets. Click here for more.
UPDATE (Nov. 12, 2022, 15:25 UTC): Adds context in first paragraph and revisions throughout."
339,454,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/12/for-coinbase-ftxs-bankruptcy-has-its-pluses-and-minuses/,"For Coinbase, FTX’s Bankruptcy Has Its Pluses and Minuses","FTX’s collapse may turn off some investors from putting money into crypto altogether, but it could be an opportunity for Coinbase to pick up market share. ",2022-11-12,"Trading volume on Coinbase plunged roughly 75% in the hours following FTX’s bankruptcy announcement early Friday, according to data from Nomics, a sign the company is beginning to feel the pain from crypto investors shrinking from the increasingly volatile cryptocurrency market.
FTX’s Chapter 11 filing is the latest in a wave of high-profile exchange bankruptcies that have sent the crypto industry into freefall and prompted investors to reevaluate whether to trade cryptocurrencies at all, said Dan Dolev, a senior analyst at Mizuho.
""For many investors, if you didn't read the writing on the wall for the last two events in this industry, it's basically that there's no bottom… this is [ investors'] last and final wake up call,” said Dolev.
It’s a reckoning that could hurt Coinbase’s bottom line.
Coinbase, the largest cryptocurrency exchange in the U.S. by trading volume, reaps 90% of its revenue from the sizable transaction fees it charges its user base of mostly newer investors who don’t trade frequently, a revenue model that requires the company to continually replenish its user base.
But as FTX’s implosion batters investor confidence in the digital asset industry, onboarding new users may prove a difficult task. That’s a challenge the exchange will have to overcome to take advantage of its increasingly narrow field of competitors, one of the few silver linings of the bear-market crypto shakeout.
Coinbase has cultivated a reputation as a safer alternative to fast-and-loose Binance and FTX, a reputation by its going public in 2017.
It’s a point of comparison the company has harped on as it reassures investors that it remains largely insulated from FTX’s implosion.
“I think it's important to reinforce what differentiates Coinbase in a moment like this,” wrote Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong in a Tuesday Twitter thread. “Coinbase has always strived to be the most trusted player in the space, and we don't engage in this type of risky activity.”
But the company’s decision to market itself primarily towards new traders and the crypto-curious may hamper its ability to grow as the market meltdown spooks less experienced traders and short-term crypto holders, says Lisa Ellis, Senior Equity Analyst at MoffettNathanson LLC.
“When prices are low and you're in a crypto winter, a lot of those retail investors kind of go into hibernation,” said Ellis.
Many new traders flocked to platforms like Coinbase during the pandemic, when inflation was low and government spending was high. At that time, investors’ rush to embrace digital assets catapulted crypto token prices to new highs too. In November 2021, bitcoin’s price peaked at just over $69,000.
But the ongoing crypto winter and then FTX’s implosion earlier this week has sent prices spiraling, meaning many Coinbase users will be less likely to trade. On Wednesday, following news that Binance had pulled out its deal to rescue FTX, bitcoin dipped below $16,000 for the first time in two years.
But there is a silver lining, according to Chris Brendler, an analyst at D.A. Davidson Company. Coinbase’s status as a public company may help the firm win over some new customers as FTX users who were blindsided by that firm’s sudden collapse come to embrace Coinbase, which is legally required to submit itself to rigorous audits and publish reports on its financial health.
“I would not be surprised if Coinbase picks up market share here,” said Brendler.
Read more: US-Listed Crypto Trading Platforms Coinbase, Bakkt Gain After FTX Bankruptcy Filing"
340,70,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/13/huobi-publishes-asset-transparency-report-revealing-35b-in-crypto-asset-holdings/,Huobi Asset Transparency Report Reveals $3.5B in Crypto Holdings,"As of Nov. 12, there were 191.84 million Huobi tokens on the platform. The exchange has promised to perform a Merkle Tree Proof of Reserves audit with a third party within 30 days.",2022-11-13,"Huobi Global, once China's top crypto exchange, published an asset transparency report on Sunday to reassure users that its funds remain safe.
As of Nov. 12, there were 191.84 million Huobi token, or HT, ($900 million) on the platform along with 9.7 billion TRX, 820 million USDT, 274,000 ETH and 32,000 BTC, and several other coins, including ATOM, ADA, BCH, DOGE, DOT, MATIC, SHIB and ETC.
The total estimated value of reserves was $3.5 billion, the report said.
Huobi said HT tokens are not only held by the Huobi Global, but some of them are also held by Huobi Global’s users.
The revelation came days after FTX, formerly the third largest digital assets exchange by volume, imploded in response to a CoinDesk report that showed the exchange's sister company Alameda Research's balance sheet, was primarily made up of FTX's native token, FTT.
Since then, crypto exchanges worldwide have been scrambling to publish so-called proof of reserves to assure users that their funds aren't being channeled into other investments. On Nov. 10, leading crypto exchange Binance released the list of its cold wallets and reserves, disclosing $69 billion in crypto reserve.
""Huobi is acting now to disclose the balance details of our hot and cold wallets and make this disclosure a routine going forward,"" the exchange said in the report, adding that it performed a Merkle Tree Proof of Reserves audit early last month when the exchange's founder Leon Li sold his controller stake to About Capital.
Huobi promised to publish another Merkle Tree Proof of Reserves audit conducted by a third party within 30 days to boost user confidence further.
Under the Merkel Tree audit, an independent entity takes an anonymized snapshot of all crypto balances held by the exchange and aggregates them into a Merkel tree, a structure normally used to check the integrity of block data.
Huobi's disclosure, however, failed to calm market nerves. The HT token was recently trading at $4.8, down 8.9% over the last 24 hours, according to CoinDesk data.
The exchange reportedly saw an outflow of 10,000 ETH after it published the asset reserve report. Data from South Korea-based blockchain analytics firm CryptoQuant shows a total of 12,000 ETH ($15.14 million) have left Huobi in the past six hours.
Huobi said the outflow was part of routine operations. ""The true situation is that the addresses we listed include some hot wallets;  the on-chain deposits and withdrawals are part of the normal operation.  The exchange is operating normally now,"" a spokesperson from Huobi's PR team told CoinDesk in an email.
The platform has the ""ability and strength to ensure the safety of users' assets and 100% payment, and there is not and will not be any restrictions on users' withdrawal,"" the spokesperson added.
12:45 UTC: Edits the DEK and the third para to say there were 191.84 millions of HT on the platform. Adds Huobi's comment that some amount of HT is held by users. The previous version said Huobi held $900 million worth of its own HT token.
12:48 UTC: Adds Huobi's comments on ETH outflow in the last paragraph."
341,6,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/13/binance-huobi-block-ftt-deposits-after-420m-worth-of-tokens-illicitly-released/,"Binance, Huobi Block FTT Deposits After $400M Worth of Tokens Unexpectedly Released","The tokens were released out of schedule from FTT’s main deployer address, with no official explanation.",2022-11-13,"Crypto exchanges Binance and Huobi blocked deposits of FTT, FTX’s native tokens, Sunday after about $400 million worth of the tokens were released out of schedule, with no official explanation.
FTT tokens follow an unlocking schedule wherein large batches of the tokens are periodically released. On Sunday, however, the tokens were released out of schedule without warning or communication from FTX or related parties.
Over 192 million FTT tokens were released, blockchain data shows. These were released from the main deployer address.
Binance founder Changpeng Zhao noted on Twitter: “Binance has stopped FTT deposit, to prevent potential of questionable additional supplies affecting the market. Also encourage other exchanges to do the same.”
FTT contract deployers moved all remaining FTT supply worth $400 million, which should be unlocked in batches. Not too sure what's going on.https://t.co/JBPd02xIRk
Justin Sun-backed Huobi Global followed the move shortly afterwards. “(We) will closely monitor the situation,” Sun tweeted.
The FTT release follows the week-long drama involving FTX, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Friday. Contagion risks are now permeating throughout the broader crypto market.
The FTT token fell 18% on Sunday to $1.78. The spectacular collapse of the FTX exchange has led to price declines on eight of the past nine days, leaving it down 93% just in November alone.
A year ago, FTT's market capitalization stood at around $8 billion, and now it's down to about $350 million, according to CoinGecko, though the new questions about the token's circulating supply might complicate the calculation."
342,395,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/13/binances-cz-pushes-for-self-custody-trust-wallet-token-soars-80-to-record-high/,Binance CEO Zhao Pushes for Crypto Self-Custody; Trust Wallet Token Soars 80% to Record,"""Self-custody is a fundamental human right,"" Zhao tweeted, encouraging people to use the company's Trust Wallet to take control of their coins.",2022-11-13,"The CEO of leading cryptocurrency exchange Binance, Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, called on members of the crypto community to take personal control of their digital assets using Trust Wallet, sending the app's native token, TWT, to a record high.
""Self-custody is a fundamental human right,"" Zhao tweeted Sunday. ""You are free to do it at any time. Just make sure you do it right.""
Zhao's push for self-custody comes as investors rethink how to keep their assets safe in the wake of cryptocurrency exchange FTX's collapse and a subsequent hack that drained $600 million worth of coins from its wallets. Acquired by Binance in 2018, Trust Wallet is a decentralized hot wallet facilitating the storage of cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens. It is compatible with several blockchains.
Trust Wallet Token (TWT) is the wallet's official token, allowing holders to participate in decision-making related to app features and updates. The token has soared 80% in the past 24 hours to a record $2.3, according to data source Messari.
Zhao recommended investors start with small amounts and get comfortable with the technology to avoid mistakes that can be very costly. Zhao added that Trust Wallet facilitates the self-custody of crypto. ""@TrustWallet your keys, your coins,"" Zhao said in another tweet.
""You have not bought bitcoin until you receive it in a wallet for which you control the private keys to,"" Blockware Solutions said in a market intelligence newsletter published Friday. ""The repeated, reckless handling of user funds by exchanges is proof that you cannot trust that these institutions actually have the bitcoin you purchased.""
""The 'not your keys, not your coins' mantra rings truer than ever,"" Ilan Solot, co-head of digital assets at London-based Marex Solutions, said in an email.
Investors have been moving coins off exchanges since FTX went down. Early today, Binance saw a net outflow of more than $72 million, while Huobi and Crypto.com registered outflows of $12.7 million and $7.3 million, respectively, according to data tracked by blockchain analytics firm Nansen.
Data from Glassnode show bitcoin's exchange withdrawals have picked up recently, indicating increased investor preference for self-custody."
343,217,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/13/all-custodial-crypto-exchanges-should-adopt-proof-of-reserve-programs-but-even-that-isnt-enough/,"All Custodial Crypto Exchanges Should Adopt Proof-of-Reserve Programs, but Even That Isn’t Enough","After last week’s FTX debacle, customers who don’t wish to take custody into their own hands should demand far better from their service providers.",2022-11-13,"Last week FTX, once the third-largest crypto exchange by volume, owned and run by founder Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF), went through a meltdown. Here’s how that went down:
On Nov. 2, a CoinDesk scoop showed that Alameda Research, SBF’s quantitative crypto trading firm, had a funny-looking balance sheet
On Nov. 6, Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, founder and CEO of the largest crypto exchange, Binance, announced his firm would sell all of the FTT, FTX’s exchange token (more on that below), that it held
Then, FTX claimed there were no issues at FTX
Then, FTT’s price tanked
Then, we got this headline: FTX Agrees to Sell Itself to Rival Binance Amid Liquidity Scare at Crypto Exchange
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
I think it’s more accurate to attribute FTX’s fall to a “solvency issue” rather than a “liquidity scare” (which just means FTX owed people some money and it couldn’t pay). But that doesn’t really matter because this potential purchase was subject to a due diligence process.
That due diligence process took almost no time at all before we got another CoinDesk scoop: Binance Is Strongly Leaning Toward Scrapping FTX Rescue Takeover After First Glance at Books
… followed hours later by official confirmation: Binance Walks Away From Deal to Acquire FTX
The market, unsurprisingly, was puking everywhere as it grappled with sparse details as events unfolded in real time. Binance ultimately pulled out of the deal because FTX’s issue were ""beyond [Binance’s] control or ability to help.""
A crude description of what this means is that FTX would be unable to satisfy customer withdrawal requests for the funds stored on its platform because FTX had been doing all sorts of things with those deposited funds and those things turned out to be bad for the value of the deposited funds. Now, this is a relatively normal practice. Even your local credit union does things with funds you deposit with them; “doing stuff” wasn’t FTX’s transgression.
By way of example, when you deposit money into a bank account, the bank lends your money out to other customers who want to buy cars, houses or a new gaming rig in exchange for an interest rate. Some banks do more exotic things, like allow customers to put up collateral (like a stock, bond or cash) to borrow some other asset to trade it. Herein lies FTX’s transgression.
FTX was doing that. It allowed customers to borrow things like bitcoin for cash to make trading bets. That’s all fine and dandy as long as FTX manages risk responsibly (whatever that means) and is transparent with its customers (much clearer, just tell customers everything).
Where FTX went wrong, besides the lack of transparency, was behavior regarding FTT, its native crypto token. FTT is like an equity stake in FTX itself, because every so often FTX uses its profits to buy some FTT off the open market (which should increase FTT’s price because of supply and demand). Customers were allowed to deposit FTT with FTX and use that as collateral to borrow other crypto assets or cash to make trading bets.
Now it’s not immediately obvious but this is an awful idea. Here’s why:
If the health of FTX is even remotely questioned (like how a company with the same founder in the same industry has a funny-looking balance sheet), then its equity (or things that are sort of equity) loses value. And if FTX is holding a lot of FTT on behalf of customers who are making trading bets, then that FTT is less valuable collateral, which means that the health of FTX degrades, which means FTT would lose value.
And so on and so forth.
You know what this sounds like? Yeah, it sounds like how roughly $60 billion of value evaporated basically overnight in May 2022 with the collapse of Terra.
Dizzy yet? Me, too. Let’s pause for a moment.
I’m not sure about you, but this sounds like something else I’ve heard about before. That is: What was happening in the leadup to the Great Financial Crisis in 2007 when financial institutions were doing all sorts of exotic things with mortgages, and taking trading bets on the performance of those mortgages.
So given the insistence of crypto-natives to avoid the failings of traditional finance (TradFi), what has the reaction been from people in the industry?
One of the more reasonable calls to action has been the urging for cryptocurrency exchanges to implement “proof-of-reserves” to combat the huge loss in credibility the collective body of cryptocurrency exchanges just felt.
Proof-of-reserves is basically a fancy way of saying: “Hey, here’s proof that we have what we say we have.”
A very simple example: Let’s say you have 1 bitcoin that you bought on an exchange called “Shh! Just Trust George” and you leave it there for the exchange to take care of it on your behalf. For all intents and purposes, that 1 bitcoin is your bitcoin; Shh! Just Trust George is just holding it for you. Because of the transparency of the Bitcoin blockchain, there should exist some proof (cryptographic or whatever) that Shh! Just Trust George does in fact have your 1 bitcoin in its reserve.
From a finance-talk perspective, Shh! Just Trust George should be able to easily prove that its assets, the bitcoin it holds, match up with its liabilities, the promise that Shh! Just Trust George will give a customer their bitcoins when they ask for them.
Some proponents, like CoinDesk columnist Nic Carter, have been urging cryptocurrency exchanges to implement this for a while. Some have, like Kraken and BitMEX, and since the FTX-and-related meltdown the likes of Binance, OKX, KuCoin, Poloniex and Huobi have all promised to issue a proof-of-reserves attestation (or similar) in the coming days, weeks or months.
Papering over some technological details, there’s a way to use Merkle trees, which are data structures used in bitcoin, to do this in a sleek and cost-effective way. I think this is great. We should aspire for more transparency in our financial services, and proof-of-reserves could provide that.
But there’s a missing piece to the practical implementation of proof-of-reserves that enterprising readers might recognize as a potential flaw. In practice there will likely also have to be a third-party auditor hired to attest to the proof-of-reserves (as Kraken has).
You might see where this is going … more third parties, more potential centralizing choke points. So while implementing proof-of-reserves is a massive step in the right direction, it is certainly still not enough.
Here are two of the (potentially many) reasons why we need more than proof-of-reserves from crypto exchanges:
We’re still partially depending on humans. Sure, these are humans at audit firms, but the humans at defunct accounting firm Arthur Andersen didn’t catch that the humans at Enron were engaged in fraud.
While a proof-of-reserves attestation might show that an exchange does in fact have the bitcoin (or other asset) you asked it to hold for you, there’s no guarantee it hasn’t done a bunch of other stuff with your funds.
So human fallibility can still upend proof-of-reserves. Somehow the hefty financial rewards that come with the financial shenanigans needs to be outweighed.
Here, though, are some shreds of hope.
Modern finance has consistently seen busts that are worse than the booms that preceded them. And the busts have hurt enough people in a short enough timespan that these people will demand more clarity and transparency going forward. If customers don’t, the policymakers will be sure to try to make that happen (even though it hasn’t really been successful so far yet).
On top of that, at risk of sounding like a Luddite, I also think consumers are wising up to one of the problems with contemporary business: complexity. Sure, without complicated things we wouldn’t have, say, circuit boards. But there’s a glut of companies, businesses, movements and jobs that can’t be simply explained anymore. That’s a problem for transparency, whatever the protagonists’ intentions.
So, after a week of dizzying revelations involving a once-heralded new business of the New Era, I leave you with one simple idea: Let’s get back to the basics."
344,297,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/14/paxos-ordered-by-us-officials-to-freeze-19m-in-crypto-tied-to-ftx/,Paxos Ordered by US Officials to Freeze $19M in Crypto Tied to FTX,Federal law enforcement asked the crypto issuer to freeze assets associated with four ether addresses as investigations into FTX collapse intensify.,2022-11-14,"U.S. federal authorities have ordered cryptocurrency issuer Paxos to freeze $19 million worth of crypto tied to the bankrupt FTX exchange, the company announced on Saturday.
The order comes after the U.S. Justice Department launched an investigation into the rapid collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire last week. The run on the multibillion-dollar exchange occurred over just a few days, culminating in a bankruptcy filing in the U.S. on Friday.
By last Thursday, U.S. regulators and the Justice Department had already contacted rival crypto exchange Binance for information about its interactions with FTX. Binance had previously announced it would possibly acquire the ailing exchange, but less than 24 hours later backtracked on the tentative deal after it examined FTX's finances.
""Earlier today, Paxos received direction from U.S. federal law enforcement to freeze Paxos-issued assets associated with four ethereum addresses,"" Paxos said in its statement on Saturday.
In response to the request, Paxos said it froze 11,184.38 PAXG tokens that had been on the FTX.com platform, but had since been moved to unknown wallet addresses over a 24-hour period.
""This is a rapidly evolving matter. We intend to provide updates as appropriate as details come to light,"" the company's statement said.
Read more: FTX Collapse Exposed 'Weaknesses' in Crypto, Janet Yellen Says: Report"
345,130,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/14/visa-ends-its-debit-card-pact-with-ftx/,Visa Ends Its Debit Card Pact With FTX,The original partnership to release crypto debit cards in 40 countries was reported on in October.,2022-11-14,"Payments company Visa (V) has elected to terminate global agreements with FTX after the crypto company’s sudden collapse.
“We have terminated our global agreements with FTX and their U.S. debit card program is being wound down by their issuer,” a Visa spokesperson told CoinDesk.
It was reported in October that Visa had partnered with FTX release crypto debit cards in 40 countries with a focus on Latin America, Europe and Asia, sending prices of FTX's crypto token FTT higher.
""The situation with FTX is unfortunate and we are monitoring developments closely. In all our undertakings – in digital currency and beyond – our focus on security and trust remains paramount,"" Visa added in its comment to CoinDesk."
346,420,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/market-wrap-bitcoin-holds-steady-through-ftx-gloom/,Market Wrap: Bitcoin Holds Steady Through FTX Gloom,"Most other major cryptos were trading in the green, albeit barely so.",2022-11-14,"Bitcoin, ether and most other major cryptos were holding steady, even as investors wrestled with the widening gloom from exchange giant FTX’s implosion.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently holding steady above its most recent $16,000 support, up a fraction of a percentage point over the past 24 hours, although some crypto market observers believe that it could dip to lower levels.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
“We have seen broader market instability despite some positive macro developments for risk assets as a whole,” David Duong, head of institutional research, at crypto exchange Coinbase, wrote, adding: “It’s still emerging which counterparties may have lent or interacted with either FTX or Alameda (FTX’s sibling company) and what those exact liabilities are. BTC could not only retest 2022 lows but touch the $13K level. We think there is support at $13.5K.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,200, up slightly. The second-largest crypto in market value and other major altcoins have been caught in the FTX fallout. The exchange filed for bankruptcy protection on Friday, suffered a major hack over the weekend and is the target of regulators worldwide.
SRM led a rogues’ gallery of tokens in the red, recently falling close to 20%. On Saturday, DeFi protocols across the Solana ecosystem began unplugging from Serum for fear that they didn’t know who wielded control – a concern fueled by the late-Friday hack at FTX. The Solana Foundation said Monday it has tens of millions of dollars in cryptocurrencies stranded on FTX – as well as 3.24 million common stock shares in Sam Bankman-Fried’s bankrupt crypto exchange.
Embattled crypto lender Celsius’ CEL token was down nearly as much, while FTX’s FTT coin fell more than 13% to $1.27, a fraction of its pricing near $36 earlier in the year. XRP was recently up more than 10%.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was trading flat.
Equity markets broke a recent trend upward with the Nasdaq dropping 1.1%, and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average declining 0.8 and 0.6%, respectively after online retailer Amazon pushed forward with layoffs, part of a larger cost-cutting campaign tied to the company’s pessimistic expectations for the months ahead.
FTX’s collapse doesn't mean it will be the end for crypto, venture capitalist Kevin O’Leary told CoinDesk TV’s First Mover program, describing the debacle as a “defining” moment that will “stabilize” the industry.
“This does not kill crypto,” added O’Leary, who said that he had considered rescuing FTX before SEC chief Gary Gensler highlighted anew the industry’s lack of regulation. “There’s going to be a silver lining to this disaster. There’s no question about it. It’ll be called regulation.”
By Glenn Williams Jr.
The growing push for crypto firms to adopt proof-of-reserves balance sheet validation emulates a practice long used in the physical commodities world.
The commodities industry has been using validation for years to assure investors of their solvency and build confidence in those markets and companies. That bitcoin and ether are often referred to as “digital gold” and “digital oil” now seems more appropriate than ever.
Oil and gas entities attest to their reserve balances at the end of each year. Investors, analysts and traders are accustomed to reading through these attestations and determining the extent to which a firm’s valuation may or may not have changed.
Below is the most recent oil and gas proved reserves report for the U.S., released Jan. 13, 2022. As you can see, the U.S. proved reserves declined 19% between Dec. 31, 2019 and Dec. 31, 2020.
Read the full technical take here.
Solana Foundation Invested in FTX, Held Millions in Sam Bankman-Fried-Linked Cryptos on Exchange: The Solana Foundation said Monday it held 134.54 million SRM tokens and 3.43 million FTT tokens on FTX when withdrawals went dark on Nov. 6. The Foundation also said it has 3.24 million common stock shares in Sam Bankman-Fried’s bankrupt crypto exchange. Following the collapse of FTX, there has been severe sell pressure on the price of SOL as the token is down over 56% in the past seven days to around $13. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at one way to embrace regulation.
FTX’s Failure Is Sparking a Massive Regulatory Response: Lawmakers, regulators and criminal investigators are looking into FTX’s collapse, and Sam Bankman-Fried’s tweets aren’t helping.
FTX Hack or Inside Job? Blockchain Experts Examine Clues and a ‘Stupid Mistake’: Insolvent crypto exchange FTX suffered a $600 million exploit late Friday after filing for bankruptcy protection.
Crypto Fund Inflows Surged Last Week as Investors Bought on FTX-Induced Dip: The largest inflows in 14 weeks, at $42 million, coincided with the crypto market's sharp downturn, triggered by the swift collapse of once-billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s business empire.
Ikigai Asset Management Had 'Large Majority' of Assets on FTX, Unclear Whether It Will Be Able to Continue: Chief Investment Officer Travis Kling tweeted that the hedge fund has only been able to withdraw ""very little"" of its funds.
Visa Ends Its Debit Card Pact With FTX: The original partnership to release crypto debit cards in 40 countries was reported on in October.
Health of FTX’s US Derivatives Arm Owed to Oversight, Says CFTC Chief Behnam: The former LedgerX unit seems to be in good shape, Behnam said at a Chicago event, though its controversial application to directly clear customers’ derivatives trades was withdrawn.
Bitcoin Miner Bitfarms Pays Down $27M of Debt: The miner is trying to improve its liquidity during the crypto market downturn."
347,90,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/first-mover-asia-extreme-fear-hits-crypto-as-ftx-hack-makes-bad-situation-worse-what-comes-next/,First Mover Asia: Extreme Fear Hits Crypto as FTX Hack Makes Bad Situation Worse. What Comes Next?,"ALSO: Sam Reynolds takes a fresh look at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's case against Ripple, where a 2018 SEC official’s speech notes may prove crucial.",2022-11-14,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Last week's calamitous collapse of the FTX exchange sent crypto markets for their worst seven-day stretch since the mid-June aftermath of the Terra blockchain's meltdown. A giant hack over the weekend just made things worse. Analysts in digital-asset markets are processing it all and forecasting what comes next.
Insights: SEC's unwillingness to disclose William Hinman's speech, arguably one of the most important speeches in crypto's history, highlights the agency's efforts to shape its case against Ripple.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
It goes without saying that last week's collapse of the FTX exchange represents one of the crypto industry's worst-ever episodes, clearly reflected in digital-asset markets: The price of bellwether bitcoin (BTC) tumbled 22% in the seven days through Sunday, its worst weekly performance since mid-June, when traders were grappling with the aftermath of the Terra blockchain's collapse. (Here's a timeline of key FTX developments, showing how the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) of 162 digital assets traded through it all.)
Things got incrementally worse over the weekend when FTX and its U.S. subsidiary, FTX US, became victims of an attack that drained hundreds of millions of dollars in crypto out of the exchanges' wallets. The crypto exchanges Binance and Huobi scrambled to block deposits of FTT, FTX's native tokens, after about $400 million of the tokens were unexpectedly released out of schedule, with no official explanation. The stablecoin issuer Tether blocked addresses tied to the FTX account drainer's wallets.
Crypto analysts are assessing what comes next for ailing digital-asset markets and policy ramifications for the reputation-wounded blockchain industry. Researchers at Coinbase Institutional say bitcoin, currently around $16,236, might be looking at a further price drop, possibly as low as $13,500.
One industry reform seems to be gaining momentum: Centralized crypto exchanges are being pushed to provide proof of reserves. It may take a lot more than that, and perhaps months, before the industry starts to regain public confidence. The widely-monitored Crypto Fear & Greed Index is signaling ""extreme fear.""
""Even though BTC has settled around $16,000 for now, the extent of the damage to other companies, funds, exchanges is as yet unknown, and may come to the fore in the weeks to come,"" said Joe DiPasquale, CEO of the crypto hedge fund BitBull Capital. ""We remain cautious until the current situation is satisfactorily resolved and sentiment appears to start moving toward relative normalcy.""
By Sam Reynolds
The SEC is keeping emails and notes that led to one of the most important speeches in crypto’s history secret from CoinDesk.
In 2018, William Hinman, the then-Director of Corporation Finance at the SEC Commission, gave a speech at the Yahoo Markets Summit that proved to be a watershed moment for crypto: Ether is not a security.
Ether, Hinman said at the time, had become “sufficiently decentralized” and thus moved past its nebulous status of security-not-a-security to commodity.
“Based on my understanding of the present state of ether, the Ethereum network, and its decentralized structure, current offers and sales of ether are not securities transactions,” a copy of the speech reads. “Purchasers would no longer reasonably expect a person or group to carry out essential managerial or entrepreneurial efforts.”
Ripple has taken great interest in this as they were sued in December 2020 by the SEC on the basis that they were offering unregistered securities via an initial coin offering. Ripple filed suit against the SEC requesting drafts of the speech along with internal notes and received a favorable ruling in January 2022.
In late September, Ripple received a huge win in its case when a U.S. judge told the SEC to release emails and other correspondence. “I can say that it was well worth the fight to get them,” Ripple’s General Counsel Stu Alderoty tweeted.
But these remain confidential. CoinDesk attempted a Freedom of Information Act request to obtain these documents, but the 71 documents that were sent were heavily redacted.
The SEC said that it was unable to release the unredacted documents as they were “prepared in anticipation of litigation, forms an integral part of the pre-decisional process, and/or contains advice given to the Commission or senior staff by the Commission’s attorneys.”
It also noted that the release of the documents would constitute an “unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.”
What is visible is a massive email thread that took place over the course of two weeks where drafts of the speech were shopped around the Commission.
A whole cast of characters from the SEC weighed in, including Jay Clayton, the then SEC chair, Lucas Moskowitz, its former chief of staff, David Fredrickson, a senior legal advisor, Jennifer McHugh, an acting associate director of the Disclosure Review, as well as Valerie Szczepanik, head of its strategic Hub for Innovation and Financial Technology.
We don’t know what was said in this email chain, but there certainly was a lot of input from the Commission. Fredrickson, in his role as legal advisor, made some edits. Szczepanik also weighed in along with McHugh.
The input from senior Commission staff might undermine the argument that Hinman’s speech was his own opinion and “not necessarily that of the Commission.” The SEC wants the market to think that this speech wasn’t guidance, but it sure looks like the SEC provided a lot of guidance in its drafting.
In an earlier interview with CoinDesk during Singapore FinTech Week, Alderoty, Ripple’s counsel, called the SEC’s current approach to crypto a failure that runs the risk of driving the digital assets industry offshore as there’s no “clear regulatory framework”. In Fortune, he wrote that Hinman’s talk was ‘the speech that muddied the crypto waters’.
“It has not provided clarity, and it's pushing innovation offshore to other economic centers like Singapore. And it's hurting the very retail consumer in the U.S. that the SEC is supposed to protect,” he said. “If the US gets this wrong, they're going to lose their position as a leader in this new financial economy.”
The case between Ripple and the SEC will likely be drawing to a close early next year (there were court dates planned for November, but extensions were granted).
Alderoty seems happy with the version of documents the SEC provided him. All this should make for an interesting next court appearance.
6:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(10:00 UTC) European Central Bank's Panetta Speech
6:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(10:00 UTC) Europes Industrial Production s.a. (MoM/Sept)
7:50 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:50UTC) Japan's Gross Domestic Product (QoQ)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
TRON Founder Justin Sun, SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce Weigh in on FTX Fallout:
Bahamian regulators have frozen the assets of FTX Digital Markets, crypto lender BlockFi has halted withdrawals, and bitcoin hovers above $17,000 as FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried looks for rescue partners to help the troubled cryptocurrency exchange. TRON founder Justin Sun, SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce, and Forex.com's Matt Weller joined the conversation.
Binance CEO Zhao Pushes for Crypto Self-Custody; Trust Wallet Token Soars 80% to Record: ""Self-custody is a fundamental human right,"" Zhao tweeted, encouraging people to use the company's Trust Wallet to take control of their coins.
Bankrupt FTX Faces Criminal Investigation in the Bahamas: Financial police in the Bahamas, where Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX is headquartered, are working with the local securities regulator to investigate if any criminal conduct has occurred.
Crypto Exchange AAX Suspends Withdrawals as FTX Failure Reverberates: The suspension for as long as 10 days was blamed on the failure of an unidentified third party. The Hong Kong-based exchange has said it has no exposure to Sam Bankman-Fried’s company.
FTX Files for Bankruptcy Protection in US; CEO Bankman-Fried Resigns: Bankruptcy filings attributed to FTX US and Alameda Research estimate each company has $10 billion to $50 billion in liabilities.
From Enron to FTX: Wall Street Turnaround Titan John Jay Ray III Takes Reins from FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried: Sam Bankman-Fried handed over control of his company to the veteran Wall Street bankruptcy lawyer, who will guide the company’s Chapter 11 process.
Post-FTX, What Happens to Crypto Markets?: The ongoing crypto crisis that sent digital asset prices plummeting may now offer a buying opportunity, albeit not without challenges.
SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce: FTX’s Collapse Could Finally Be ‘Catalyst’ for Regulation: “Having the SEC and CFTC work together makes a lot of sense,” Peirce told CoinDesk TV.
Crypto.com Preliminary Audit Shows 20% of Its Assets Are in Shiba Inu Coin: As large crypto exchanges push to prepare “proof-of-reserves” audits, an initial effort reveals just how much of Crypto.com’s reserves are in the dog-inspired meme token, SHIB."
348,132,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/14/ftxs-failure-is-sparking-a-massive-regulatory-response/,FTX’s Failure Is Sparking a Massive Regulatory Response,"Lawmakers, regulators and criminal investigators are looking into FTX’s collapse, and Sam Bankman-Fried’s tweets aren’t helping.",2022-11-14,"A hammer is going to fall on crypto exchange FTX. The question is how heavy it might be.
The collapse of FTX will likely give rise to a number of criminal and civil actions against the exchange and its executives, like former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried. It’s also likely to push forward actual regulatory changes, either via lawmakers or through federal agencies themselves, a number of individuals told CoinDesk.
FTX filed for bankruptcy last Friday, days after halting withdrawals and a little over a week after CoinDesk first reported that the balance sheet of FTX sister company Alameda Research held a surprisingly large amount of FTT, an exchange token issued by FTX. FTX was “fine,” Bankman-Fried said in response to questions about his exchange’s solvency, before a series of events showed otherwise.
As a result, several state and federal agencies launched or expanded investigations into the company, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Securities Commission of the Bahamas and the Bahamas’ Financial Crimes Investigation Branch.
Members of the U.S. Congress from both political parties are also calling for further action as a result of the collapse. Some lawmakers are even talking about holding hearings, potentially by the end of the year, said Ron Hammond of the Blockchain Association.
Read more: 8 Days in November: What Led to FTX’s Sudden Collapse
Rep. Brad Sherman (D-Calif.), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, said in a statement that the collapse is “a dramatic demonstration of both the inherent risks of digital assets and the critical weaknesses in the industry that has grown up around them.”
Senate Banking Committee Chair Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) are among those in Congress calling for investigations into the collapse as well as Sam Bankman-Fried, who was a major party donor.
Other lawmakers, like Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), the current ranking member on the House Financial Services Committee, Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) and Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), the outgoing ranking member on the Senate Banking Committee, said it was regulatory ambiguity in the U.S. that allowed FTX to grow as large as it had as an offshore exchange. They called for Congress or regulatory agencies to provide clearer guidelines for crypto exchanges to operate.
The fact that regulators apparently had no view into some of the major projects that fell apart this year – such as Celsius, Three Arrows, Luna and now FTX – is “precisely the problem,” said an industry participant who works closely with policymakers.
Still, the individual told CoinDesk that they don’t expect any major legislative action to occur this year. Most likely, Congress will look at bills like the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act, a bill that Bankman-Fried supported but was written prior to that, in the upcoming year.
According to an attorney who requested anonymity, the SEC may have an easier time kicking off the investigation just due to its mandate.
“The SEC is in a much better position to go to court and get a freeze [on assets] if they believe there's a reason to do that,” the attorney said. “The SEC also has a less cumbersome process for subpoenaing testimony and freezing documents.”
The SEC and DOJ are likely to cooperate though, to the extent that DOJ investigators may sit in on SEC interviews.
Read more: 'FTX Has Been Hacked': Crypto Disaster Worsens as Exchange Sees Mysterious Outflows Exceeding $600M
The fact that FTX is registered and headquartered in the Bahamas is not likely to impact these investigations, the attorney said. FTX has various U.S. connections, which is all the SEC and DOJ need to assert jurisdiction for their investigations.
FTX appears to be preparing for these investigations, with FTX US General Counsel Ryne Miller having already told the entire company to preserve documents.
A former federal prosecutor told CoinDesk that the bankruptcy court may also shed light on the situation, thus assisting government investigators with their probes.
""The bankruptcy court has the ability to now oversee the company and to obtain information from the company that, let's say the DOJ might not have been able to obtain as easily pre-bankruptcy, and they'll likely have access to a new trustee or an examiner and be able to learn in essentially real-time what's going on,” the former prosecutor said.
Executives like Bankman-Fried may also “be in a tough spot with respect to” deciding whether to cooperate or assert Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination, the former prosecutor added.
A complicating factor – for FTX anyway – may be the fact that Bankman-Fried has tweeted his way through his company’s collapse.
On Nov. 7, a few days after CoinDesk first reported on Alameda’s balance sheet, the one-time crypto wunderkind tweeted that “FTX has enough to cover all client holdings.” He went so far as to say that speculation about his company’s solvency was a rumor spurred by a competitor (Binance) but that “assets are fine.”
Later in the week, he tweeted that FTX US was also fine and fully liquid. Only hours later, FTX US warned users it might suspend withdrawals.
Within a day, Bankman-Fried agreed to a buyout/bailout of his reeling exchange by rival Binance (Binance walked away from the deal less than 24 hours later, precipitating the bankruptcy filing, including for FTX US). The tweets were deleted.
“It’s a complete nightmare,” said Ken White, a former federal prosecutor and a partner at the Brown White & Osborn law firm. “This is a situation where all sorts of agencies are going to be looking at this, the SEC, the FTC, and probably the Department of Justice. There are all sorts of potential criminal and civil consequences – lawsuits. Civil lawsuits are a certainty. And here he is sort of tweeting out his thoughts about it. It's every attorney’s nightmare of what a client might do.”
Read more: Washington, D.C.’s Buddy Sam Bankman-Fried Has Some Explaining to Do
Other attorneys agree, including John Sparacino, a principal at McKool Smith, who suspected Bankman-Fried did not run his tweets through a lawyer.
The former FTX CEO’s conduct is “going to be under a microscope,” said Sparacino, and it seems likely that some of Bankman-Fried’s tweets may come back to haunt him as litigation works its way through the courts.
Sparacino said he did not know if there were any regulatory or criminal aspects to the tweets, but would still expect them to show up in litigation.
The fact that Bankman-Fried repeatedly took to Twitter to reassure his exchange’s users that everything was fine before the various stages of its fall could make any case against him easier, said White, calling the tweets “extraordinarily foolish.”
“It creates new bases for criminal or civil claims against him just based on those tweets,” White said. “So if he says that everything's fine, that their assets are real assets, and that's not true, then that can be securities fraud, and wire fraud, all sorts of other stuff, not to mention all sorts of civil causes of action … It is just disastrously reckless.”
Investigators may look at what Bankman-Fried’s tweets would indicate to individual investors, as well as what FTX’s representations were. And while it is entirely possible that Bankman-Fried may have believed that his exchange was safe and stable before being proven wrong by unanticipated events, it is also possible that he tweeted inaccurate information. The exchange’s ties to Alameda will also raise scrutiny – if Bankman-Fried was transferring user funds into Alameda and losing those investments, that may become a liability during litigation.
Asked what advice he’d give Bankman-Fried, White said, “My advice is shut the f*** up or I quit.”
“Even if the money is good, sometimes you just don't as a lawyer,” he said. “You don't want to be attached to someone who's deciding to self-immolate.”"
349,435,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/14/cryptocom-ceo-dismisses-speculation-of-financial-trouble-says-ftx-exposure-is-minimal/,"Crypto.com CEO Dismisses Speculation of Financial Trouble, Says FTX Exposure Is Minimal","In a live question session, Kris Marszalek said the company’s balance sheet is strong.",2022-11-14,"Expect a tough crypto winter, but Crypto.com isn’t going anywhere, CEO Kris Marszalek said during a live interview hosted on its YouTube channel.
Over the past week, Crypto.com’s CRO token has dropped almost 45% on concerns the Singapore-based exchange will be the next to face a liquidity crisis. The exchange’s daily volume has collapsed from last year's highs of around $4 billion to about $284 million this past October, according to data from Nomics, and withdrawals are on their way back up as users and investors remove their funds from the platform.
In the interview, Marszalek reiterated that the exchange has a strong balance sheet and said its exposure to FTX was limited to $10 million, down from a possible $1 billion in business the two exchanges had together earlier.
“We recovered $990 million from FTX,” Marszalek said, pointing out that fund flows between exchanges are a necessary part of the business.
He also said that 20% of Crypto.com's reserves are in Shibu Inu coin because that's what the customers trade, and everything in its reserves is backed 1-to-1 versus customer crypto deposits.
An audit of Crypto.com is underway, but it will take some time. Audit firms “don’t work at crypto speed,” he said, emphasizing that Crypto.com and the industry both need full transparency to move forward.
Withdrawals are working as expected, he reiterated. The only stoppage has been related to GALA, SRM, and Ray.
“SRM is closely tied to FTX,” he said.
Marszalek said that CRO, Crypto.com’s token, has never been used as loan collateral, unlike the relationship between FTX and Alameda and FTX's token, FTT.
“We’re never going to raise funds,” he added, stating that the business is cash flow positive.
One of Crypto.com’s more controversial moves has been stadium sponsorship, with eye-watering price tags. There are questions about how effective the whole thing is as a sales funnel. Marszalek says it is a worthwhile investment, reminding people that the contracts are paid yearly.
“We pay a small amount every year, which amounts to around 10% of our revenue. This is not crazy compared to other companies,” he said. “Growth to 70 million users is not possible without some investment into brand awareness.”
Part of the market’s mistrust of Crypto.com might stem from the exchange’s recent $400 million mishap, where it accidentally sent ether to an account at an exchange called Gate.io. That was the second time the company had mistakenly transferred an amount in the millions. In August, it was revealed the exchange had sent $10.5 million to a woman in Melbourne, and took seven months to notice.
Marszalek explained that all addresses for transfers of these scales are whitelisted and approved. The destination address was Crypto.com’s corporate account at Gate.io, and the funds were returned after Gate.io raised the corporate account’s daily transfer limit.
“The funds were at no risk of being lost,” Marszalek said. “The system would not allow us to send money somewhere it can’t be recovered.”
While some on crypto Twitter have speculated that this was part of a scheme to bolster Gate.io’s holdings before its proof of reserves were published, Marszalek said this was not the case.
As for Crypto.com’s critics Marszalek says he’s looking forward to proving them wrong with actions and words.
“Their allegations have no substance,” he said."
350,382,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/14/ftx-hacker-panicked-still-holds-339m-in-ether-cryptos-arkham-intelligence/,"FTX Hacker Panicked, Still Holds $339M in Ether, Cryptos: Arkham Intelligence",The mysterious looter siphoned about $400 million in digital assets from crypto exchange FTX late Friday night.,2022-11-14,"The mysterious looter of bankrupt crypto exchange FTX, who is likely an insider according to a blockchain expert, holds $339 million of digital assets that they drained from the exchange late Friday, according to crypto intelligence platform Arkham Intelligence.
Arkham found that the wallets associated with the exploiter hold $215 million in ETH, the native token of the Ethereum blockchain, $48 million in Maker’s stablecoin DAI, $44 million in BNB, the Binance ecosystem’s native token, $4 million in Tether’s USDT stablecoin on the Avalanche blockchain and $3.8 million of MATIC on Polygon’s Matic bridge.
Some $20 million in PAXG, a Paxos stablecoin linked to the price of gold, was frozen when Paxos was ordered to blacklist the accounts by U.S. authorities, preventing the holder from moving or cashing out the tokens.
We are now 3 days deep into the attack on FTX.

So far, Paxos has blacklisted 4 addresses, and the attacker has repeatedly bridged to and from multiple different networks.

What will the FTX attacker do next?

An update on their current token balances and actions so far 👇 pic.twitter.com/pU415WGGNK
Late Friday night, the insolvent crypto exchange FTX of Sam Bankman-Fried, suffered suspicious outflows exceeding $600 million, as CoinDesk reported. One entity at the center of the exploit siphoned off about $400 million from the exchange’s crypto wallets. The attack came after FTX, and the other 137 firms of Bankman-Fried’s crypto conglomerate, filed for bankruptcy protection the same day.
Read more: 'FTX Has Been Hacked': Crypto Disaster Worsens as Exchange Sees Mysterious Outflows Exceeding $600M
The hacker acted hastily based on their behavior on the blockchain, according to Arkham’s report. They used various decentralized exchanges to convert tokens, including UniSwap, 1inch and CowSwap, and struggled to dump coins such as MATIC, LINK and PAXG divided into smaller amounts to prevent losses from slippage.
After tracing the attacker’s blockchain transactions, Arkham found that they “appeared to be in panic” and “lost a large amount of their token holdings” when they moved assets across different chains to avoid getting caught. In a likely attempt to consolidate their holdings, they also converted tokens to ETH and DAI on the Ethereum network, movements that cannot be easily sanctioned by authorities.
“It is becoming clearer by the day that the FTX exploiter is not very sophisticated,” Miguel Morel, chief executive of Arkham Intelligence, told CoinDesk. “They've hastily tried to do whatever they can with the funds, seemingly without much of a plan.”
The attacker also seemingly committed at least one amateur misstep. They flippantly tapped their verified personal account on crypto exchange Kraken to send enough TRX tokens to cover transaction fees, according to Dyma Budorin, CEO of blockchain security audit firm Hacken.
The unsophisticated maneuvers imply that there may be some hope to reclaim the funds the hacker took.
“I think it's only a matter of time before they're discovered due to their use of various off-ramps, and at that point it will just be about recovering the funds,” Morel said.
Read more: FTX Hack or Inside Job? Blockchain Experts Examine Clues and a ‘Stupid Mistake’"
351,72,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/14/solana-foundation-invested-in-ftx-held-millions-in-sam-bankman-fried-linked-cryptos-on-exchange/,"Solana Foundation Invested in FTX, Held Millions in Sam Bankman-Fried-Linked Cryptos on Exchange",The foundation addressed the fallout of the FTX debacle in a blog post.,2022-11-14,"The Solana Foundation said Monday it has tens of millions of dollars in cryptocurrencies stranded on FTX – as well as 3.24 million common stock shares in Sam Bankman-Fried’s bankrupt crypto exchange.
In a blog post, the Foundation said it held 134.54 million SRM tokens and 3.43 million FTT tokens on FTX when withdrawals went dark on Nov. 6. Those assets are worth $29.3 million and $4.4 million, respectively, at current market prices per CoinGecko; they were worth around $107 million and $83 million one day before the freeze.
Those holdings point to deep financial ties between Solana and FTX, which created the FTT token and held court over Serum, an on-chain crypto exchange that Bankman-Fried created and which was at the center of much of Solana-based decentralized finance (DeFi).
See also: FTX Hack Sparks Revolution at Serum DEX as Solana Devs Plot Alameda's Ouster
FTX’s collapse last week continues to reverberate through Solana, perhaps most acutely through its severe sell pressure on the price of SOL, which is down 57% in a week. But FTX’s role in managing infrastructure critical to Solana DeFi has caused a crisis for individual protocols, too.
Many trading projects on Solana used wrapped assets called “Sollet assets” as stand-ins for bitcoin, ether and other non-native cryptocurrencies. FTX was believed to be the issuer and backer of these assets; its collapse has sent them into a spiral and shouldered a handful of protocols with bad debt.
“The total exposure to Sollet-based assets on Solana in circulation is valued at approximately $40 million as of Nov 10, 2022. The status of the underlying assets is unknown at this time,” the blog post said.
The Solana Foundation itself appears to have avoided the worst of the crisis. It held less than $1 million of its balance sheet on FTX when withdrawals ceased. “The impact on Solana Foundation operations is negligible,” the blog post said. It lost no SOL to FTX.
Read more: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried’s Crypto Empire Blur on His Trading Titan Alameda’s Balance Sheet
Trading funds, exchanges and crypto projects large and small have been disclosing their exposure to FTX and Alameda in light of the firms’ sudden downfall. FTX had loaned some $8 billion in customer deposits to its sister trading firm – a violation of its own terms of service. This created a hole in its balance sheet that ultimately led to its collapse last week.
FTX’s former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried was a key backer of Solana, a smart contracts platform whose native SOL token powers trades across various decentralized finance protocols – much like Ethereum and its “gas” token ETH.
Bankman-Fried’s exchange and trading firm had purchased a total of 58,086,686 SOL tokens from the Foundation and sister entity Solana Labs from August 2020 onwards, the blog post said. The Foundation said it is unclear what will happen to those assets during bankruptcy proceedings."
352,1078,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/14/white-house-goes-back-to-the-future-with-fdic-chair-pick-gruenberg/,White House Goes Back to the Future With FDIC Chair Pick Gruenberg,"The Biden Administration has nominated Martin Gruenberg, the longest-serving FDIC board member in history, to return to the chairmanship he held under Obama.",2022-11-14,"President Joe Biden has chosen to nominate Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) Acting Chairman Martin Gruenberg to return to the chairmanship he held in previous administrations.
Gruenberg, who has served on the FDIC board for a record 17 years after working for Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee, has been a reliable proponent of tougher financial rules, though his position on cryptocurrencies hasn’t been fully fleshed out. In an October speech on crypto issues, he said stablecoins could have such a profound effect on the banking system that U.S. regulators need to make sure the digital tokens fit in without disruption.
Under Gruenberg’s leadership as the interim head of the board, which has continued long after his own board term expired at the end of 2018, the FDIC also went after some crypto firms – including the now-disgraced FTX – that the agency claimed misrepresented how customers may be protected by deposit insurance.
The FDIC will have a key role in how crypto will mesh with the U.S. banking system. That work will have significant influence over how stablecoin rules are eventually implemented.
The White House sent Gruenberg’s nominations for his board seat and the five-year chairmanship to the Senate for confirmation on Monday. The so-called lame duck period of Congress, in which the last weeks of this session are completed before the newly elected members arrive in January, has begun. Narrow control of next year’s Senate will remain with Democrats.
The Biden Administration has had a mixed record of getting its financial regulator nominees through the Senate confirmation process. A pick for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Saule Omarova, and one for the Federal Reserve’s bank-supervision role, Sarah Bloom Raskin, failed to reach a vote. But Michael Barr – a former adviser to Ripple – had at first faced pushback as a potential candidate to run the OCC, then won confirmation when he was nominated for the Federal Reserve job.
Gruenberg, who was confirmed previously as FDIC chairman in 2012, was embroiled in some controversy at the start of this administration when he and the Democratic chief of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau sought to move a bank-merger policy without support of the FDIC chairman at the time, Jelena McWilliams. McWilliams subsequently resigned.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) praised the Gruenberg pick, saying he “has spent his entire career fighting for American consumers, and he is well equipped to continue defending the banking system from new and existing threats.”
However, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors pointed out that nominating him means “none of the nominees to the FDIC Board will meet the requirement for state bank supervisory experience.” Biden had previously nominated Travis Hill as vice chairman and Jonathan McKernan as a board member, which would fill out the five-member board."
353,106,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/goldman-cuts-coinbase-price-target-to-41-says-exchange-is-fairly-insulated-from-ftx-collapse/,"Goldman Cuts Coinbase Price Target to $41, Says Exchange is Fairly Insulated From FTX Collapse","Goldman maintained a sell rating on COIN, revising lower its 12-month price forecast to $41 from $49.",2022-11-14,"The U.S.-based cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase (COIN) is sufficiently insulated from the fallout of the FTX collapse, Goldman Sachs said on Friday.
Goldman took a bearish stance on Coinbase's stock, cutting its price target to $41 from $49, and maintaining its ""sell rating.""
The Wall Street giant also sees FTX's collapse having a limited impact on trading and investing app Robinhood, as crypto related revenues accounted for just 9% of the platform's total revenue. Goldman analysts revised the 12-month price target for Robinhood's stock (HOOD) from $13 to $12.50.
Coinbase's highly liquid balance sheet and lack of proprietary trading activities shield the Nasdaq-listed exchange from ramifications of FTX's situation, Goldman's equity research team said in a note sent to clients on Friday.
The team expects the FTX-induced market volatility and investor unease about less regulated exchanges to bode well for Coinbase in the near term.
""We have also updated our 2022/2023/2024 revenue estimates from $3.26 billion/$3.18 billion/ $3.34 billion to $3.29 billion/$2.71 billion/$2.76 billion,"" analysts noted.
Last week, Brian Armstrong, the CEO of crypto exchange Coinbase, noted that the exchange does not have significant exposure to FTX, its native token FTT and FTX's sister concern Alameda Research.
Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX filed for bankruptcy on Friday, sending shockwaves across the crypto industry. FTX's fall was set in motion by the CoinDesk report showing Alameda holding large amounts of illiquid FTT on its balance sheet.
Shares of Coinbase were down 1.7%, while shares of Robinhood slipped over 4%, in pre-market trading."
354,467,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/14/ftx-hack-or-inside-job-blockchain-experts-examine-clues-and-a-stupid-mistake/,FTX Hack or Inside Job? Blockchain Experts Examine Clues and a ‘Stupid Mistake’,Insolvent crypto exchange FTX suffered a $400 million exploit late Friday after filing for bankruptcy protection.,2022-11-14,"The beleaguered crypto exchange FTX suffered a $400 million hack over the weekend, and at least one blockchain expert says the clues are point to a high-level insider who committed an amateur misstep that might have inadvertently revealed their identity.
The attacker appears to have “had access to all the cold wallet storages which he exploited,” Dyma Budorin, co-founder and chief executive of blockchain security auditing firm Hacken, said Monday in an interview with CoinDesk TV.
Hacken investigated blockchain transactions and found that the looter tried to send tether (USDT) stablecoin on the Tron blockchain multiple times unsuccessfully because they didn’t have enough TRX, the Tron network’s native token, in the wallet to pay for transaction fees. So the looter used their verified personal account on crypto exchange Kraken to send 500 TRX to the compromised wallet address to cover the transaction.
“He made a stupid mistake,” Budorin said.
🚨 FTX (@FTX_Official) hot wallets across different networks demonstrated suspicious activity a couple of hours ago

Possible amount of stolen funds can be near $400M

Here are some details

🧶...
Because of Kraken’s “know-your-customer” or KYC measures – part of the anti-money-laundering compliance requirements – and verification process, the exchange had information on who owns the personal wallet the TRX was sent from, revealing the identity behind the exploit.
Hacken immediately contacted Kraken’s security team about the transaction, Budorin said.
“We know the identity of the user,” Nick Percoco, chief security officer of crypto exchange Kraken, said in a tweet Saturday. Percoco added he was told that FTX or the exchange’s founder and former chief executive, Sam Bankman-Fried, will release an official statement.
We know the identity of the user.
Budorin said that the exploit demonstrated that the way FTX managed its cold wallets was “very poor.”
FTX suffered a hack late Friday night, resulting in more than $600 million in digital assets leaving the exchange's wallets in a flurry of withdrawals. FTX's new CEO, John Ray acknowledged that the exchange had been ""compromised,"" and said that it was taking “precautionary steps…to mitigate damage upon observing unauthorized transactions.” Hacken found that one entity, which Budovin suspects to be an insider, siphoned about $400 million from the exchange.
Read more: 'FTX Has Been Hacked': Crypto Disaster Worsens as Exchange Sees Mysterious Outflows Exceeding $600M
New details about the exploit led to speculation on crypto Twitter that possibly FTX owner Sam Bankman-Fried or someone in his close circle could have been behind the exploit, given the access to FTX's cold wallets.
Asked whether Bankman-Fried was the owner of the compromised wallet the exploit originated from, Budorin said that “this is confidential information,” but he added that the wallet’s owner is a U.S. citizen. Budorin did not return CoinDesk’s request for additional comment at publication time on how he obtained information about the hacker’s citizenship and whether Kraken shared any personal data with Hacken of the account’s holder.
A Kraken spokesperson said that the exchange is “in contact with law enforcement, and has frozen Kraken account access to certain funds we suspect to be associated with ‘fraud, negligence or misconduct’ related to FTX,” according to a statement sent in email.
Of course, blockchain-savvy criminals can be sophisticated, so it’s possible that the mistake was a red herring the looter intentionally provided to mislead the investigation – by stirring some confusion.
“It’s very common for a scammer to use a fake KYC (know-your-customer) account so that authorities go chasing the wrong person,” Cryptogle, a blockchain sleuth, told CoinDesk.
Top exchange FTX and its corporate-sibling trading firm Alameda Research were the crown jewels of Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, which imploded in spectacular fashion last week after a bank run on FTX’s deposits revealed that it had lost billions of dollars of digital assets that belonged to customers.
The whole conglomerate, 138 firms altogether, filed for bankruptcy protection Friday after rescue plans failed, triggering several investigations.
Read more: FTX Files for Bankruptcy Protection in US; CEO Bankman-Fried Resigns
UPDATE (Nov. 14, 21:18): Adds context about FTX's exploit in 9th paragraph."
355,99,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/14/ukrainian-official-refutes-ftx-ukraine-money-laundering-rumors/,Ukrainian Official Refutes FTX-Ukraine Money Laundering Rumors,The deputy crypto chief of Ukrainian government says war-torn country used FTX only as a fiat on-ramp.,2022-11-14,"Alex Bornyakov, deputy minister of digital transformation of Ukraine, took to Twitter Monday night to officially deny a conspiracy theory around the country's crypto fundraising effort.
""A fundraising crypto foundation @_AidForUkraine used @FTX_Official to convert crypto donations into fiat in March. Ukraine's gov never invested any funds into FTX. The whole narrative that Ukraine allegedly invested in FTX, who donated money to Democrats is nonsense, frankly,"" Bornyakov tweeted, ending with a ""facepalm"" emoji.
Last week, a theory spread on Twitter and right-wing websites suggesting the U.S. government's massive aid to the besieged nation rebounded to the U.S. Democratic party via the failed FTX crypto exchange, which was an official partner of Ukrainian government for the crypto fundraising campaign.
FTX filed for bankruptcy last week following CoinDesk's report that the balance sheet of FTX sister company Alameda Research held a surprisingly large amount of FTT, an exchange token issued by FTX. Soon after that, FTT tanked, spiraling a crisis of liquidity on the exchange and a collapse in the company's value.
Neither Ukrainian government nor FTX ever announced an investment event of any sorts. Such a move would have been extravagant for a nation fielding a full-scale military invasion from Russia using military and financial aid from the U.S., E.U., U.K. and other countries, observers have been quick to point out.
Ukraine, which raised hundreds of millions in crypto this spring, in addition to a traditional fiat campaign to support its military and civilian population, partnered with FTX in March to cash out crypto donations and turn them into ammunition and humanitarian aid. FTX, along with the Ukrainian exchange Kuna, became a platform for turning crypto into actual goods for the nation at war.
As CoinDesk earlier reported, FTX was used as a platform for merchants, which would register an account and receive payment for their goods in crypto. Then those merchants could immediately turn it into fiat if they wanted, according to the technical lead of Ukrainian government's crypto fundraise Michael Chobanyan, CEO of Kuna.
Chobanyan confirmed to CoinDesk that FTX role was limited to a fiat off-ramp: Kuna would send crypto their to get cash and pay for things the army needed.
Read also: Where the Coins Go: Inside Ukraine’s $135M Wartime Fundraise"
356,938,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/morgan-stanley-says-there-is-still-much-leverage-in-the-crypto-ecosystem/,Morgan Stanley Says There Is Still Much Leverage in the Crypto Ecosystem,"Retail investors may start to sell if bitcoin trades below $10,000, the report said.",2022-11-14,"The collapse of FTX and Alameda has sparked another round of deleveraging in crypto markets, and that’s likely to spur more “crypto quantitative tightening,” Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a research report Friday.
Creditors are selling digital assets to cover their risks, adding to market volatility, and are likely to reveal their exposures in the next few weeks. The spillover to equity markets so far is limited because crypto firms mainly lend to each other, the report said.
Morgan Stanley says many events have led to the latest bout of volatility in the crypto market, but the key question is “how to value crypto tokens that offer a service but don’t offer the token holder a stake in the company (like equity) or a claim on assets in the case of a default (like debt.)”
In a bull market using such a token as collateral to leverage seems fine, but the strategy is risky in a bear market, the bank added.
The bear market in bitcoin started almost a year ago and it has been mainly institutions who have been selling, the note said. Retail investors are still holding on to their positions.
With bitcoin (BTC) now trading under $18,000, there isn’t a clear technical support level before $12,500, the bank said. It estimates that anyone that bought or received BTC in the past 12-18 months has an average breakeven price of around $45,000.
“Retail investors may start to sell if BTC trades below $10,000,” it added.
Decentralized finance (DeFi) lending is proving to be resilient at the moment, as it was in June following the Terra/LUNA collapse, because it is over collateralized. “CeFi lending is where there were problems,” the note added.
DeFi is an umbrella term for a variety of financial applications carried out on blockchains.
Read more: JPMorgan Sees Wave of Crypto Deleveraging From FTX’s Woes"
357,509,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/14/after-ftx-rebuilding-trust-in-cryptos-founding-mission/,After FTX: Rebuilding Trust in Crypto’s Founding Mission,"For an industry built on the principle of decentralization, we had a lot of trust in one 30-year-old. Understanding why is key to a more sustainable future for crypto.",2022-11-14,"After one of the most dramatic weeks in crypto history, in which a large and highly regarded trading platform was revealed to be engaging in shady financial management resulting in a multibillion-dollar balance sheet hole and the bankruptcy of more than 130 related companies, we’re left wondering how this could happen in an industry created to obviate the need for trust.
That question is naïve, however – while details are starting to emerge around how much money was moved where and why, the underlying reason is this: We chose to trust.
Noelle Acheson is the former head of research at CoinDesk and Genesis Trading. This article is excerpted from her Crypto Is Macro Now newsletter, which focuses on the overlap between the shifting crypto and macro landscapes. These opinions are hers, and nothing she writes should be taken as investment advice.
The instinctive reaction, then, familiar to all who have had trust broken, will be to vow to never be that vulnerable again. In finance, we do now have the technology to facilitate a relatively trust-free financial relationship with atomic swaps, transfer monitoring and balance verification. But, just as our bruised souls almost always eventually recover from personal disappointment and we again open our hearts to others, we will see that we can’t live without centralized services that require us to believe they are doing what they say.
This is a consequence of internal and external systems that we can’t do much about.
The internal system is our emotional makeup. We humans are wired to rely on others for survival. It’s why our ancestors formed tribes, clans and countries. Modern times have given us the means to feed ourselves and shelter without help, and yet most of us still seek out friendship and a sense of belonging because satisfying emotional needs alone is not yet something we are good at. The parallel in commerce and finance is the energy-saving convenience of having specialists handle as much as possible, creating satisfying connections while freeing up our time for other pursuits.
Read more: CoinDesk's continuing coverage of FTX's collapse
The external system is the regulatory framework many of us live in. When it comes to financial services, our choices are limited to those offered by counterparties that have satisfied certain requirements designed to ensure that we are making informed decisions and that our assets will be recoverable. Hardly anyone reads the small print of the terms and conditions we need to accept before we can transact – it’s a better use of our time to assume that they make sense. We also don’t demand proof that the firm follows sound practices – we assume that it would rather avoid the punishment of non-compliance with the law.
But crypto was created to be different. Perhaps too much so for us to emotionally adapt in such a short time frame.
We didn’t have to trust FTX – there are decentralized alternatives, after all. But we chose to. We could have insisted on more clarity on the balance sheet, done some forensics on token movements earlier and asked why no investors were on the board of directors. But we didn’t.
We fell into the ingrained habit of trusting a centralized provider, for many reasons: the convenience, the potential for return, the sense of belonging and instinctive respect for smarts and eloquence, as well as the uplifting satisfaction of rooting for the scruffy underdog and seeing him (Sam Bankman-Fried) succeed.
This is perhaps the result of drawing inferences from patterns – if a company is big and successful, it must be legit, right? If it has so many offices in so many jurisdictions, if it is supporting the growth of the industry in so many areas, if the founder has so many famous and powerful friends, then surely the verification work has been done, right?
Throw in a hefty dose of ideology, and you get a supportive crowd whose strong desire for the concept to triumph suppressed the normal checks on common sense. And there’s the affective reflex that drew in even non-believers: Who doesn’t love a nerdy outsider who quietly and intelligently explains how he’s going to make the world a better place by reforming finance and giving away most of his money?
I’m not pointing any fingers here, except perhaps at the mirror.
Do we eschew centralized platforms forever because we can’t be trusted to vet them properly? That sounds appealing right now, and the resilience and growth of decentralized applications paint a landscape of empowering potential. But we know that many of us will slip back into the habit of instinctively choosing convenience over safety, convinced that we will be better at spotting danger signs next time. After all, convenience breeds efficiency, which generates economic gain, and as humans, we instinctively gravitate toward comfort and collaboration.
We can do better. We can accept that centralized platforms will form an integral part of our markets, while learning from this debacle and designing tools that make trust less based on blind faith. This is already happening – over the past week, several platforms have announced that they will publish “proof of reserves,” a combination of cryptographic and traditional audit that enables users to independently verify that a platform’s assets match or exceed customer deposits.
In the future, venture-capital investors, some of whom will have a bit of uncomfortable explaining to do over the coming weeks, will become more rigorous in their due diligence, at least until the next hot fad comes along.
Lobby groups and policy teams will work with regulators to draft disclosure rules while fending off hasty limitations and destructive definitions. Institutions will step back from the edge of radical innovation, but are likely to continue to support an emerging structure that looks familiar but can deliver better returns.
And the industry will continue to build a stronger offering that showcases a fundamental tenet of its existence: greater choice for individuals, anywhere. Those who want to use decentralized services should be able to do so. Those who prefer the convenience of a centralized offering deserve reliable services.
Read more: Nic Carter – Let’s Actually Commit to Proofs of Reserve This Time, Okay?
This may read like wishful thinking. But I trust human nature to do what it does best – find a collective solution to the generalized demand for protection while supporting niche solutions for outlier groups. After all, throughout history these non-mainstream idealists have been the innovators who succeed in pushing through reform when their ideas end up delivering better efficiency and empowerment than the existing system.
We will trust again. As we should – it’s part of who we are and a necessary feature of communities that build value. We have to understand the concept better, though. An awareness of why we trust is an essential part of designing systems to deliver what we need while mitigating vulnerabilities fed by our short-sightedness.
The FTX debacle has left pain and anger in its wake. It’s in our hands to make sure nothing like this happens in our industry again, while at the same time understanding how we got here. It’s also up to us to pick ourselves up, support those who are struggling and continue moving forward.
Part of the process will involve accepting that centralization will be a necessary, but carefully crafted, feature of the decentralized system we hope for. Part will be believing that, with the help of technology and much better messaging, we can achieve our goals without changing the nature of the people that make this industry the diverse force that it is."
358,134,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/market-analysis-crypto-turns-to-an-oil-patch-tradition-to-right-itself/,Market Analysis: Crypto Turns to an Oil-Patch Tradition to Right Itself,Crypto exchanges' newfound commitment to adopt proof-of-reserves measures echoes practices long followed by the oil and gas industry – to instill confidence.,2022-11-14,"The growing push for crypto firms to adopt proof-of-reserves balance sheet validation emulates a practice long used in the physical commodities world.
The initiative, which none other than Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao has been pushing and that venture capitalist Nic Carter addresses in this CoinDesk opinion piece, would require exchanges to verify their assets. FTX’s implosion over the last 10 days – a result of propping up the affiliated trading firm Alameda Research with its own FTT tokens – raised the question about an industry-wide epidemic of balance sheets being out-of-whack or improperly managed. The current, intense period of reassessment will likely morph from “who uses proof-of-reserves” to “who uses it most often.”
The commodities industry has been using validation for years to assure investors of their solvency and build confidence in those markets and companies. That bitcoin and ether are often referred to as “digital gold” and “digital oil” now seems more appropriate than ever.
Oil and gas entities attest to their reserve balances at the end of each year. Investors, analysts and traders are accustomed to reading through these attestations and determining the extent to which a firm’s valuation may or may not have changed.
Below is the most recent oil and gas proved reserves report for the U.S., released Jan. 13, 2022. As you can see, the U.S. proved reserves declined 19% between Dec. 31, 2019 and Dec. 31, 2020.
“Proved reserves” are widely recognized as having a 90% chance of successful extraction. Lower tier categories, “probable” and “possible” reserves, denote much lower probabilities of success, but are often justifiably excluded from a company’s valuation.
Standardization of definitions and methodology in determining reserve balances is key for the system’s success, ensuring that analysts and investors can evaluate entities versus each other, and monitor trends on an apples-to-apples basis.
The myriad issues that the crypto sector has faced over the last six months appear to be individual- and entity-based, and not asset-based. Bitcoin and ether continue to operate as intended.
Cryptocurrencies' efficacy as mediums of exchange, units of account and vessels to store value remain intact. Decentralized finance, which operates on code, fared especially well during the turmoil, although the odds of DeFi being carved out of the criticism caused by centralized failures are low. Crises have a way of sweeping up everything in their path.
The analogy between a crypto-based proof-of-reserves audit, and that of an oilfield is not perfect.
A dollar value is often assigned to an energy company's reserves by projecting out future cash flows and discounting them by 10%. For centralized crypto firms, marking the daily value of reserves to markets could be more straighforward.
Oil reserves also require extraction, which creates the delineation between proved, probable, possible and other reserve categories; there's some degree of subjectivity when it comes to geological modeling tools and rock formations hundreds or thousands of feet below the ground. Proof-of-reserves for digital assets more closely resembles an audit of assets that have already been extracted.
Finally, a natural lag exists in the auditing of energy reserves. The table above, while most recent, reflects U.S. energy reserves as of 2020.
Proof-of-reserves can be executed far more frequently within crypto – maybe even weekly or daily or in real time. Certain exchanges have already gone as far as adopting daily attestation of crypto reserves.
The differences could work to the crypto industry’s advantage, allowing exchange users and other observers to track assets precisely on an ongoing basis. Attestations may serve as a worthy beginning point for crypto that follows a sound process, rather than relying on the strength of personality to foster faith in a fledgling industry that still leaves most people feeling squirmy."
359,460,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/14/there-was-no-cause-to-add-ftx-to-investor-alert-list-before-collapse-singapores-mas-says/,"There Was No Cause to Add FTX to Investor Alert List Before Collapse, Singapore's MAS Says","The Monetary Authority of Singapore told CoinDesk it was not possible to prevent Singapore users from directly accessing overseas service providers, and warned regulations don’t protect against risky speculative trades.",2022-11-14,"Global cryptocurrency exchange FTX’s dramatic fall through last week, ending in a bankruptcy filing in the U.S., left Twitter dense with rumors about how stakeholders worldwide – already spooked by widespread market contagion from earlier in the year – might be affected by the fresh collapse.
When Binance announced its plans to potentially purchase the embattled FTX’s non-U.S. business last Tuesday in a now-scrapped deal, retail crypto investors were confused about what was going to happen to their funds locked in FTX.com.
A number of Twitter posts alleged crypto investors in Singapore had turned to Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX over Binance after the latter withdrew its bid to get regulatory approval in the country last year and was placed on the regulator’s Investor Alert List (IAL).
Some Twitter users pointed fingers at the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), which is responsible for regulating and licensing crypto operators, for having targeted Binance and let FTX.com continue to serve customers in the country.
MAS only lists entities that may be “wrongly perceived” as being locally regulated on the IAL, as was the case for Binance.com, the MAS said in an emailed statement to CoinDesk.
“It would not be meaningful for MAS to list all unlicensed entities on the IAL. MAS did not have cause to list FTX on the same basis as Binance,” the regulator said.
Although Singapore regulators haven’t made any moves on FTX yet, the MAS had previously vowed to crack down on “bad” crypto operators in the country. The warning came after a number of big industry names with ties to Singapore – like crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and exchange platform Vauld – bit the dust earlier this year.
During FTX’s quick demise, the securities regulator in the Bahamas, where the company was headquartered, moved to freeze assets tied to FTX. Japan’s Financial Services Agency also ordered FTX’s local arm to suspend all operations. On Friday, Cyprus suspended a license it approved for the exchange in September. FTX is also facing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission probe.
Read more: Singapore Central Bank Proposes Stablecoin Rules to Rein In Crypto Sector
Similar actions could be expected in Singapore if there's a reason for it, Chia Hock Lai, co-chairman at Blockchain Association Singapore said in an interview with CoinDesk. Regulations in general, particularly related to securities trading, are likely to tighten, according to Chia.
The MAS has already proposed regulations that could limit inexperienced retail investors from accessing crypto markets, along with standards for issuers of crypto stablecoins that are pegged to the value of other assets like the U.S. dollar.
“I think that this will further convince the MAS that what it did is correct,” Chia said, referring to the MAS’ initiatives to further regulate the sector and curtail retail investor participation.
For now, MAS clarified that FTX.com does not operate in Singapore, and that it’s neither licensed nor exempted from licensing in the country.
“It is not possible, however, to prevent Singapore users from directly accessing overseas service providers. FTX.com was therefore able to onboard Singapore users,” the central bank said. “MAS has consistently reminded the public of the risks of dealing with unlicensed entities.”
It also clarified that Binance was not banned in Singapore.
“Binance did not have the requisite license to solicit customers from Singapore and had to cease doing so,” the statement said.
FTX’s insolvency filing from Friday listed 134 entities tied to Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto enterprise seeking bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Among the listed, was its Singapore subsidiary Quoine Pte. Ltd, which also operates crypto exchange Liquid (another entity listed in the filing).
Responding to questions raised about why FTX.com’s Singapore users have not migrated to its subsidiary in Singapore, MAS said that FTX.com and Quoine operate as separate legal entities.
“Quoine is currently exempt from licensing while its license application is under review. MAS is carefully reviewing the application, taking into account recent developments,” MAS said, adding that it has not required FTX.com to migrate Singapore users to Quoine.
Read more: FTX Employees Worldwide Learned of Bankruptcy Along With the Public
MAS issued a consultation paper on Oct. 26 proposing regulatory measures to restrict retail investors’ participation in crypto markets to reduce risk exposure. The proposed rules include crypto service providers to set up a test designed to gauge retail traders’ experience.
Singapore doesn’t have a large retail market for crypto, but the introduced measures are “very comprehensive” and verge on overregulation, according to Chia.
“Because, for example, if investors already go through the risk assessment test, there's no need to curtail them from using credit cards to make payments or to ban service providers from providing incentives,” Chia said.
Consumers must continue to exercise utmost caution when trading in cryptocurrency, the MAS told CoinDesk.
“Digital payment token service providers licensed by MAS under the Payment Services Act are regulated for money laundering and terrorism financing risks as well as technology risks, but not safety and soundness,” MAS said.
This means operators are not subject to risk-based capital or liquidity requirements, and they are not required to safeguard customer funds or digital tokens from insolvency risk, the regulator explained.
“Regulations cannot protect consumers from losses arising from the inherently speculative and highly risky nature of cryptocurrency trading,” the MAS said.
Read more: Bankrupt FTX Faces Criminal Investigation in the Bahamas"
360,507,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/14/big-short-author-michael-lewis-spent-months-with-ftxs-sam-bankman-fried-and-is-writing-a-book/,'Big Short' Author Michael Lewis Spent Months With FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried and Is Writing a Book,A letter circulating in Hollywood says the best-selling author is working on a book and has “a dramatic surprising ending” given the shocking collapse of Bankman-Fried’s crypto juggernaut.,2022-11-14,"Best-selling author Michael Lewis may have lucked into the story of a lifetime – quite the development given he has already published a long string of hit books including “The Big Short” and “Flash Boys.”
Lewis, according to a letter from Creative Artists Agency circulating in Hollywood, has just spent the past six months or so “traveling with and interviewing Sam Bankman-Fried,” the former billionaire whose cryptocurrency empire dramatically blew up this month after a CoinDesk scoop spurred fear that his business was built on a house of cards.
The Ankler, an entertainment industry newsletter, reported first on the existence of the letter, saying it was sent Friday to potential buyers of film rights for the book. CoinDesk subsequently verified that the letter was indeed sent.
“His childhood, early success on Wall Street, embrace of effective altruism and the creation of a crypto empire that catapulted him in record time into the ranks of the richest people in the world seemed more than sufficient for a signature Michael Lewis book,” the letter said. “The events of the past week have provided a dramatic surprise ending to the story.”
The letter added: “Michael hasn’t written anything yet, but the story has become too big for us to wait.”
A voicemail message left with a senior publicist at Lewis’ publisher, W. W. Norton & Co., wasn’t returned.
There has been speculation for months that Lewis was profiling Bankman-Fried. When asked about that by CoinDesk in September, Bankman-Fried declined to comment.
Lewis is one of the most successful and famous non-fiction writers around. His first book, “Liar’s Poker,” was about his time as a bond trader. “The Big Short” told the story of investors who successfully bet on the housing market blowing up in 2008, and “Flash Boys” described how computer-driven traders transformed Wall Street and highlighted an effort to fight back.
Lewis often builds his books around scrappy upstarts who challenge the status quo, like baseball executive Billy Beane from “Moneyball,” who helped popularize a more analytical approach to evaluating players, or Brad Katsuyama from “Flash Boys,” whose startup IEX – which Bankman-Fried’s FTX US agreed to invest in this year, creating a connection of sorts to Lewis – took on Wall Street incumbents like the New York Stock Exchange.
Lewis already said he planned to write a book that would discuss crypto. “I found a character through whom I can write about – it weirdly links up ‘Flash Boys,’ ‘The Big Short’ and ‘Liar’s Poker,’” he told Financial News in an interview published in August.
“I guess it is possible it will be framed as a crypto book, but it won’t be a crypto book,” Lewis told Financial News. “It’ll be about this really unusual character. You’ll learn all about crypto and you’ll learn about what screwed up market structure in the United States and so on.”
Lewis interviewed Bankman-Fried on stage in the Bahamas – where Bankman-Fried ran the business – at an FTX conference held in April. “There’s a status upheaval in the financial world, and you’re sitting right in the middle of it,” Lewis said to Bankman-Fried. Lewis was later seen sitting in the audience, writing in his notebook.
Bankman-Fried’s business failed partly because Changpeng Zhao, the CEO of bigger crypto exchange Binance, said he planned to sell his holdings of a token issued by FTX. Chaos ensued, and Binance announced a deal to bail out FTX – which was withdrawn the next day.
Referring to Bankman-Fried and Zhao, the letter circulating in Hollywood said Lewis “likens them to the Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader of crypto.”
Read more: Bankman-Fried’s Cabal of Roommates in the Bahamas Ran His Crypto Empire – and Dated. Other Employees Have Lots of Questions"
361,156,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/first-mover-americas-ftx-faces-criminal-charges/,First Mover Americas: FTX Faces Criminal Probe,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 14, 2022.",2022-11-14,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bankrupt crypto exchange FTX faces a criminal investigation in the Bahamas following its dramatic collapse last week. Authorities in the Caribbean country where FTX has its headquarters are investigating whether any criminal misconduct occurred in the exchange’s decline and bankruptcy. Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto exchange went from being one of the world’s largest to filing for bankruptcy in barely a week, after a CoinDesk article raised questions about the financial stability of its sister company Alameda Research.
The native token of Binance-owned Trust Wallet soared 80% on Sunday after CEO Changpeng Zhao encouraged crypto users to take personal control of their digital assets. Zhao made the warning following the collapse of Binance’s rival FTX, which Binance briefly agreed to rescue before aborting its plan after it took a closer look at FTX’s balance sheet. Trust Wallet is a decentralized hot wallet facilitating the storage of cryptocurrencies. Its native token TWT allows holders to participate in decision making related to the app’s features. At the time of writing, TWT was up about 50% in the last 24 hours at $2.44, according to data by CoinMarketCap.
Crypto.com CEO Kris Marszalek has attempted to assuage fears that the exchange could be the next to face a liquidity crisis. Crypto.com’s native token CRO has dropped around 45% in the last week, while its daily volume was down to about $284 million in October compared with last year’s highs of around $4 billion. In a YouTube interview, Marszalek reiterated that Crypto.com’s balance sheet is strong and its exposure to FTT was limited. He added that CRO, unlike FTX’s native token FTT, has never been used as loan collateral.
This chart shows similarities between the current bitcoin bear market and the 2018 market swoon.
The latest decline is reminiscent of the November 2018 capitulation that saw bitcoin drop nearly 50% to $3,200 precisely one year after the bull run peaked.
After Bitcoin's Worst Week in Five Months, Here's What Crypto Analysts Are Saying
Democrats Keep the US Senate but Crypto Only Has Eyes for FTX Collapse
All Custodial Crypto Exchanges Should Adopt Proof-of-Reserve Programs, but Even That Isn’t Enough"
362,216,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/14/crypto-industry-participants-field-questions-from-uk-lawmakers-after-ftx-collapse/,Crypto Industry Participants Field Questions from UK Lawmakers After FTX Collapse,"In an evidence inquiry session on crypto held by the Treasury Committee, the group addressed negative questions, with some calling for more regulatory clarity.",2022-11-14,"Following the FTX bankruptcy last week, executives from Binance and Ripple, among others, testified in front of the U.K. Parliament Treasury Committee.
Present were committee chair Harriet Baldwin – a conservative member of parliament – along with other members of that committee. Testifying were Daniel Trinder, vice president of government affairs of Europe at Binance, Susan Friedman, head of policy at payments network Ripple, Ian Taylor, executive director of lobby group CryptoUK and Tim Grant, head of Europe at Galaxy Digital.
“This is the exchange collapsing Ian, must feel a bit awkward coming in talking to us after last week,” Baldwin said. She also fired off other questions to the group, such as if the events surrounding FTX undermined confidence in what they do for a living.
“I think it would be very wrong to tar the entire industry by this one bad apple, which happened to be a very big apple,” Grant said.
Read more: FTX Collapse Exposed 'Weaknesses' in Crypto, Janet Yellen Says: Report
The U.K. still has hopes to be a crypto innovation hub and wants to work with regulators to ensure this objective doesn't undermine stability, its Finance Minister Jeremy Hunt told Sky news on Friday.
Turning back to today’s hearing, CryptoUK’s Taylor called for the government to put in place a broad framework like the European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) legislation, and Ripple’s Friedman echoed this request. Plus, Taylor and Binance’s Trinder also said crypto firms needed auditing.
The committee also asked Trinder if Binance knew its actions – 1) Unloading on the markets much of its holdings of FTX exchange token FTT, and 2) Agreeing to and then backing out of a deal to bailout/acquire FTX – might lead to the collapse of that exchange.
Trinder denied such intention and offered to quickly send the committee related correspondence documents to justify that Binance’s actions were not fuelled by the intention to destroy its competitor.
Read more: EU Finalizes Legal Text for Landmark Crypto Regulations Under MiCA"
363,681,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/sam-bankman-frieds-unceremonious-exit-leaves-alameda-gap-in-crypto-markets/,Sam Bankman-Fried’s Unceremonious Exit Leaves ‘Alameda Gap’ in Crypto Markets,"The fall of a big player in the crypto trading sector has created a domino effect: lack of liquidity, according to a new report from Kaiko.",2022-11-14,"Call it the “Alameda gap.”
Last week’s collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s trading firm, Alameda Research, has left such a big hole in cryptocurrency markets that trading liquidity has thinned noticeably, according to a new report from Kaiko.
The drop in liquidity over the past week is far larger than in any previous market drawdown, and it could be “here to stay” in the short term, according to Kaiko – especially since other trading firms including Amber Group and Genesis Trading have reported funds being trapped on FTX.
Since Nov. 5, bitcoin liquidity within 2% of the mid-price has fallen from 11,800 BTC to 7,000 BTC, the lowest since early June, according to Kaiko, which analyzed data from 18 crypto exchanges.
Kraken’s bitcoin (BTC) market depth has fallen by 57%, Bitstamp’s by 32%, Binance’s by 25%, and Coinbase’s by 18%, according to the report.
Kaiko said ether (ETH) markets were also affected by the collapse, with 2% market depth, falling to late May levels.
BTC’s price fell more than 21% in the past seven days, trading around $16,200 as of Monday midday, while ETH was down 23% over the past week to $1,210.
Altcoins get hurt more
Kaiko said liquidity in altcoins might be “more concerning,” especially those that were significant holdings of Alameda, such as Solana’s SOL.
SOL’s total market depth has fallen 50% from 1 million SOL to under 500,000 SOL aggregated across all order books, according to Kaiko: “This drop was felt on every single exchange.”
Solan's SRM and MAPS tokens have also seen a plunge in depth, the report noted.
Solana’s SOL token dropped as low as $12.08 in the past 24 hours, hitting its lowest level in over 20 months, before settling back to about $13 Monday. SRM was one of the biggest losers in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) as its price fell 22% in the past 24 hours to $0.16.
“Alameda held a huge amount of illiquid tokens while (almost certainly) being a market maker for these same tokens, which put the firm in a nearly impossible position when faced with insolvency,” the report added.
Joe DiPasquale, CEO of BitBull Capital, said that market liquidity levels may stay under pressure until the Federal Reserve tempers its campaign to tighten monetary conditions.
“Even though the sentiment has been dented overall, the market will eventually recover, especially as macro contributors, like the Fed easing up on interest hikes, become dominant,” he said. “We expect the liquidity to remain relatively dry until the market begins to pick up and market confidence is restored.”"
364,784,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/celsius-is-owed-12m-by-alameda-research-newest-member-of-bankrupt-crypto-club/,"Celsius is Owed $12M by Alameda Research, Newest Member of Bankrupt Crypto Club","The bankrupt crypto lender’s new CEO told the judge Celsius Mining has approximately 40,000 mining rigs.",2022-11-15,"Bankrupt crypto lender Celsius Network told the court Tuesday it had $12 million in outstanding loans to Alameda Research, the trading wing of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire.
That money – part of which is represented in locked SRM tokens held as collateral –  is now likely wrapped up in Alameda’s own bankruptcy proceedings, adding another obstacle for Celsius’ creditors. It and some 130-odd other entities tied to Bankman-Fried filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last week after a bank run exposed a multi-billion-dollar hole in FTX’s reserves.
Read more: Celsius' Crypto Customers Face Big Obstacle in Trying to Claw Back Their Deposits
Celsius’ new CEO Chris Ferraro said the company used to have much more at risk. In January 2020, for example, Celsius had $3.6 billion in total exposure to FTX Group. But it whittled down its exposure to $354 million immediately prior to its own bankruptcy filing earlier this year.
Celsius is the latest crypto company to disclose its exposure to crypto exchange FTX and trader and market maker Alameda Research.
Ferraro told the court that Celsius’ outstanding loans were part of its revenue generation,  post-bankruptcy, though he admitted that the bankrupt crypto lender’s revenue is currently “obviously at a much lower clip, than it was pre-filing, pre-pause.”
Ferraro also said Celsius is generating a “moderate amount of top-line revenue” across staking deployments and its mining business.
Read more: Celsius Lays Out Mining-Focused Reorganization Plan at First Bankruptcy Hearing
According to Ferraro, Celsius has 37,000 mining units currently hosted by Core Scientific. Celsius has reportedly defaulted on payments to Core Scientific, which is facing its own financial trouble. Core Scientific has claimed that Celsius owes it over $5 million in unpaid bills.
Despite Celsius’ seeming inability to pay Core Scientific, Ferraro told the court that it was “incredibly strategic and important” that Celsius continue to build out a mining facility in Midland, Texas. The Midland site currently has 3,000 mining rigs, according to Ferraro.
The judge asked Ferraro if the recent price drop in bitcoin meant Celsius’ nascent mining operation was now losing money.
“From an operational perspective, we are cash flow positive,” Ferraro told the judge. “The margins are compressed – it’s probably around 20%, where we sit today, but you know, we have the ability to shut off the machines if they cost more to produce a bitcoin than the amount that we can mint it for.”"
365,215,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-ether-rise-late-despite-ftx-fatigue/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin, Ether Rise Late Despite FTX Fatigue",ALSO: Sam Reynolds considers the advantages of licensed custodians as the crypto industry wrestles with the fallout from crypto exchange FTX's implosion.,2022-11-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptocurrencies surge late to ride into the green.
Insights: Could licensed custodians help the crypto industry save itself?
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin Overcomes FTX Fatigue
By James Rubin
Battered but unbowed by FTX fallout, bitcoin rose late Monday from the depths of red to regain its foothold snugly above $16,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently holding steady at about $16,600, up nearly 2% over the past 24 hours, even as crypto market observers believe that it could dip to lower levels. Earlier in the day, BTC had dipped to about $15,850, below its most recent support.
This article was adapted from Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
“We have seen broader market instability despite some positive macro developments for risk assets as a whole,” David Duong, head of institutional research, at crypto exchange Coinbase, wrote, adding: “It’s still emerging which counterparties may have lent or interacted with either FTX or Alameda (FTX’s sibling company) and what those exact liabilities are. BTC could not only retest 2022 lows but touch the $13K level. We think there is support at $13.5K.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,200, up roughly 3%. The second-largest crypto in market value and other major altcoins have been reckoning with the aftershocks of crypto exchange FTX's balance sheet vulnerabilities and consequent filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. On Friday, the centerpiece of erstwhile crypto wunderkind Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire suffered hacks accounting for about $600 million in outflows. Regulators are ratcheting up their scrutiny of the exchange and its sibling, Alameda Research, whose heavy balance sheet allocation of FTX's FTT token sparked FTX's rapid unraveling.
FTX congagion remained virulent with Serum's SRM token recently falling more than 12%. On Saturday, DeFi protocols across the Solana ecosystem began unplugging from the onchain exchange that Bankman-Fried had lauded for fear that they didn’t know who wielded control – a concern fueled by the FTX hack. And the Solana Foundation said Monday it has tens of millions of dollars in cryptocurrencies stranded on FTX – as well as 3.24 million common stock shares in Sam Bankman-Fried’s bankrupt crypto exchange. Nevertheless, its SOL token rose about 10%.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was trading flat.
Equity markets broke a recent trend upward with the Nasdaq dropping 1.1%, and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average declining 0.8 and 0.6%, respectively after online retailer Amazon pushed forward with layoffs, part of a larger cost-cutting campaign tied to the company’s pessimistic expectations for the months ahead.
While some analysts remained horrified by FTX's self-inflicted downfall, with an Arcane Research newsletter calling the ""situation a mess,"" and noting that one of the largest crypto companies in the industry was playing with customers’ money,"" others saw it as a potential building block for the young, crypto industry.
Venture capitalist Kevin O’Leary told CoinDesk TV’s First Mover program that FTX’s collapse doesn't mean it will be the end for crypto and described the debacle as a “defining” moment that will “stabilize” the industry. “This does not kill crypto,” added O’Leary, who said that he had considered rescuing FTX before SEC chief Gary Gensler highlighted anew the industry’s lack of regulation. “There’s going to be a silver lining to this disaster. There’s no question about it. It’ll be called regulation.”
By Sam Reynolds
Imagine for a moment if there were a class of companies whose sole job was to safeguard customers’ assets being held by an exchange or other institution from theft, hacks or misuse by executives. And imagine if these companies were registered with the government, insured and regularly audited, with the results available for the public to inspect.
Now imagine if the majority of exchanges didn’t use these services because it slowed their business down.
Welcome to November 2022.
“If you use an external independent, licensed custodian, we would never have gotten into this situation because they couldn't have had access to customer deposits,” Alessio Quaglini, CEO of Hex Trust, said in an interview with CoinDesk.
Quaglini said that with a custodian, clients’ assets are legally and technologically segregated, available for public monitoring via block explorers, and insured. Assets are disclosed, as are liabilities.
To put it bluntly: the funds would have been safe from outsider threats, insider threats, and Alameda Research.
“The ledger would have been at least managed by an independent party versus the kind of internal ledger that they were using between FTX and Alameda,” said Quaglini. “The frosting on the cake was the ‘hack’ where employees were leaving, nobody knew who was in charge of what, and then all of the sudden funds disappear because you don’t know who’s in control of the private keys.”
Despite all the due diligence that was allegedly done on FTX by some of the world’s most important venture capital funds like Sequoia, Softbank, and Temasek, this issue never came up. Caught in the Bankman-Fried cult of personality, these VCs never thought it necessary to have some safeguards in place to protect customer funds — which would have certainly been a requirement in the TradFi world.
“Investors are guilty in this case of throwing money [at FTX] without asking for really basic things like segregation [of] clients’ assets. The fact that investors were not demanding this was quite embarrassing,” said Quaglini.
In July 2020, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), greenlit nationally chartered banks in the U.S. to provide custodian services for crypto. In the days following that announcement, crypto raced from $9,514 to over $11,000.
Institutional capital was accustomed to having custodians, and this was the key to unlocking this narrative. This is how the asset class hit $1 trillion, and another Mt. Gox was prevented.
Some exchanges have their own custodians, like Coinbase and Gemini. These are separate entities from the main exchange, licensed appropriately under local law (Coinbase and Gemini both have New York licenses).
But FTX did not.
Nor does Binance.
Without custodians, and their requirements for public disclosure, we have no way of checking who’s solvent and who’s insolvent. Publicly known wallets can help, but that’s not the full picture. The public will have to take the word of executives at face value, and pray that Crypto.com’s balance sheet is as strong as it claims.
Exchanges are now effectively operating as unregulated banks with fractional reserve banking minus the capital requirements, regulations, or ironically, transparency.
Something has to change. Hopefully, it's not stringent regulation that strangles the industry.
Binance’s Changpeng Zhao wants to establish an industry association to promote best practices as part of his recovery fund. But will this include the use of licensed custodians? Time will tell. So far, all he’s been calling for is self-custody.
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2:00 UTC) China's Retail Sales (YoY) (Oct)
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Great Britain's ILO Unemployment Rate (3M) (Sept)
6:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(10:00 UTC) Europe's Gross Domestic Product s.a. (QoQ) (Q3)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Fallout Worsens as Exchange Sees Mysterious Outflows Exceed $600M; Kevin O'Leary on Crypto Outlook
As if things weren't bad enough for bankrupt FTX, the cryptocurrency exchange was drained of some $600 million in an apparent hack. Hacken CEO Dyma Budorin joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the details. Also O'Leary Ventures Chairman and Shark Tank star Kevin O'Leary, one of the high-profile investors in FTX, joined First Mover Plus, bankruptcy expert Thomas Braziel gave his assessment of FTX and what to expect in court.
Solana Foundation Invested in FTX, Held Millions in Sam Bankman-Fried-Linked Cryptos on Exchange: The foundation addressed the fallout of the FTX debacle in a blog post.
Morgan Stanley Says There Is Still Much Leverage in the Crypto Ecosystem: Retail investors may start to sell if bitcoin trades below $10,000, the report said.
Bitcoin Miners' Balance Slides as FTX Collapse Weighs on Crypto: Data tracked by Glassnode shows, the number of bitcoin held by miner wallets has dropped to a 10-month low.
FTX Collapse Exposed 'Weaknesses' in Crypto, Janet Yellen Says, Bloomberg Reports: The U.S. Treasury Secretary said the crypto sector is in need of ""very careful regulation"" while some lawmakers are already preparing to propose tougher rules.
FTX’s Failure Is Sparking a Massive Regulatory Response: Lawmakers, regulators and criminal investigators are looking into FTX’s collapse, and Sam Bankman-Fried’s tweets aren’t helping."
366,468,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/meaning-of-ftx-fall-depends-on-ones-politics-us-senate-hearing-shows/,"Meaning of FTX Fall Depends on One’s Politics, US Senate Hearing Shows","U.S. political parties take separate, opposing lessons from the crash of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire.",2022-11-15,"The fallout of the FTX collapse has left U.S. lawmakers spinning two distinct narratives: Democrats hail their financial regulators as heroes whose caution saved the disaster from threatening the wider financial system, and Republicans argue it proves resistant agencies chased crypto firms away from the U.S. and into dangerous, unregulated territory.
Both positions were on display at a Tuesday hearing of the Senate Banking Committee, which opened with Chairman Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) recounting this year’s disintegration of much of the cryptocurrency industry and saying that the tokens themselves still don’t offer “anything useful or beneficial.” He thanked the officials testifying – including Democratic appointees from the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators – “for your skepticism about cryptocurrencies.”
Another Democrat, Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), similarly praised the cautious watchdogs, saying if they’d given the industry more credibility, “We’d be cutting another check,” as the government did to bail out financial firms during the mortgage meltdown in 2008. “Thank you for what you’ve done,” Tester said.
Republicans were quick to separate the concept of crypto from the actions of FTX and its management, and to argue that if such firms weren’t pressured to operate outside the U.S., its regulators may have been able to prevent such misdeeds.
What happened had “nothing to do with the technology underpinning crypto itself,” said Sen. Bill Hagerty (R-Tenn.)
And one of crypto’s most reliable Senate advocates, retiring Sen. Patrick Toomey (R-Pa.) echoed that idea, saying “this is fundamentally not about the kind of assets that were held by FTX; it's about what individuals did with those assets.”
Toomey, who is leaving the Senate at the end of the year, blamed the ambivalence of regulators unwilling to provide clear guidance for how crypto could safely mesh with the existing banking system, saying it “has helped to push crypto activities into foreign jurisdictions with weaker or no regulatory regimes.”
Michael Hsu, the acting chief of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, said he doesn’t want banks to take on any business they can’t prove will be safe, though Toomey argued that “some of the obligation” is on Hsu and others to clarify how banks can provide custody of digital assets like they do for other financial holdings.
Hsu maintained that “the custody of crypto is different.”
However, Michael Barr, the vice chairman for supervision at the Federal Reserve, said he’s open to working on further crypto guidance for U.S. banks. So far, he said “few banks” are coming forward with plans to offer custody services.
For his part, Hagerty said some fault lies with a Congress that’s failed to come up with legislation to provide rules for crypto in the U.S.
""We shouldn't take the wrong message from what happened last week,” Hagerty said. “No amount of poorly considered, knee-jerk overregulation here in the U.S. would have prevented a foreign-domiciled company like FTX from doing what it did.""
During his turn with Tuesday’s witnesses, Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) asked the regulators whether any of them would – at this point – hire former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried “to manage a food truck.”
“Do you know who was watching these chuckleheads?” he asked the officials, adding that the company’s leaders seemed to have been ""engaged in stealing.""
“That's under investigation now, senator,"" replied Martin Gruenberg, the acting chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp."
367,141,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/ftxs-new-leadership-is-in-touch-with-regulators-may-have-over-1m-creditors-new-filings-say/,"FTX's New Leadership Is in Touch With Regulators, May Have Over 1M Creditors, New Filings Say",FTX filed its first substantive look at the exchange's bankruptcy process days after declaring bank,2022-11-15,"FTX may have more than 1 million creditors, according to a court filing that finally began to explain the company's descent into bankruptcy.
The document, filed to the federal court database system PACER late Monday, provided the first true glimpse of the crypto exchange's last day prior to filing for bankruptcy and its first few days going through the process. FTX's new CEO, veteran insolvency overseer John J. Ray III, is working with legal, cybersecurity and forensic advisers on the company's myriad subsidiaries and their respective bankruptcy processes, the filing said.
FTX filed over 100 dockets for its various related companies, including Alameda Research, the quant trading shop that held a lot of FTT tokens, West Realm Shires, a business entity in the U.S. that operates as FTX in some jurisdictions, and Clifton Bay Investments.
As part of these dockets, FTX filed motions to jointly administer the overall umbrella group of entities rather than treat each as its own individual case. As part of this effort, FTX is also asking if, rather than create a list of the top 20 creditors for each individual company, it can instead create a top 50 list for the overall structure. Moreover, FTX believes it may have over 1 million creditors overall.
""As set forth in the Debtors' petitions, there are over one hundred thousand creditors in these Chapter 11 Cases. In fact, there could be more than one million creditors in these Chapter 11 Cases. As such, the Debtors submit that cause exists to modify that requirement such that the Debtors will file a consolidated list of their top 50 creditors,"" the filing said.
The exchange's operators are also asking the court to allow it to email the notice of bankruptcy to FTX's creditors, rather than serve them with notices at their homes.
Read more: FTX Hack or Inside Job? Blockchain Experts Examine Clues and a ‘Stupid Mistake’
FTX's customers primarily interacted with the exchange online, so their emails are already on file, the document said.
The filing touched on Friday's hack, which saw hundreds of millions of dollars worth of crypto flow out of FTX's wallets, and confirmed that FTX has been in touch with ""dozens"" of state and federal regulators worldwide, including the U.S. Attorney's Office, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and others.
FTX has also appointed new directors, including former District Judge Joseph Farnan at FTX Trading; Matthew Doheny at FTX Trading; Mitchell Sonkin at West Realm Shires Inc.; Matthew Rosenberg at Alameda Research and Rishi Jain at Clifton Bay Investments.
FTX filed for bankruptcy on Friday morning, saying it had between $10 and $50 billion in assets and liabilities and over 100,000 creditors. Monday's filing did not address the questions of what assets or liabilities the exchange can currently lay claim to, but said the new leadership team is working to ""secure and marshal"" its assets. This includes having multiple lawyers and experts to review FTX and its subsidiaries' books.
The filing also provided a glimpse of how FTX got to the point of filing its first substantive documents several days after first filing for bankruptcy, saying the bankruptcy was declared on an emergency basis.
""FTX faced a severe liquidity crisis that necessitated the filing of these cases on an emergency basis last Friday. Questions arose about Mr. Bankman-Fried's leadership and the handling of FTX's complex array of assets and businesses under his direction,"" the filing said.
Bankman-Fried stepped down from his role at 4:30 a.m. on the day FTX filed for bankruptcy (a time zone was not given, but presumably it was ET, the time zone in the the Bahamas, where Bankman-Fried resides.
Since stepping down, Bankman-Fried has continued tweeting various thoughts and statements, which should concern his lawyers, legal experts told CoinDesk.
Read more: FTX’s Failure Is Sparking a Massive Regulatory Response"
368,140,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/15/consensys-economist-still-has-hope-for-crypto-after-ftxs-fall/,ConsenSys Economist Still Has Hope for Crypto After FTX's Fall,Lex Sokolin said the sector can thrive if people develop useful applications based on blockchain technology.,2022-11-15,"The implosion of crypto exchange FTX has shocked the industry financially and led to a “confidence crisis” in the world of digital assets, Lex Sokolin, head economist of decentralized protocols at software company ConsenSys, said.
And yet Sokolin told CoinDesk TV's “First Mover” on Tuesday that ""prices are not the end goal” and crypto’s future shouldn’t depend on the market’s immediate place today.
“They might be a reflection of value … but they’re not the thing that you’re trying to optimize,” Sokolin said. “What you’re trying to actually optimize is people building things that are novel, useful and that anchor in new technology.”
Read more: Solana Foundation Invested in FTX, Held Millions in Sam Bankman-Fried-Linked Cryptos on Exchange
He added that crypto’s long-term trajectory depends on the new technology pushing “the frontier of what’s possible.”
At the same time, Sokolin said he’s worried that people will stop seeing “crypto economics as a legitimate field” and begin to “lose confidence,"" giving the example of Solana.
On Monday, the Solana Foundation said that it had upward of $135 million worth of SRM tokens and about $3.4 million FTT tokens stuck on the FTX exchange. FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was a vocal supporter of Solana and Serum, a decentralized exchange built on the blockchain. Both were hurt by Bankman-Fried's fall from grace.
“I’m worried that a lack of trust in the Solana ecosystem will spread to a lack of trust in the model,” Sokolin said.
Despite the turmoil caused by FTX, a Bahamas-based exchange that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy last week and that faces prosecution, Sokolin said it’s important to consider the “organic entrepreneurship” in crypto, pointing out that blockchains such as Ethereum are continuing to “build collaboratively.”
Read more: Solana DeFi Sees Almost $700M in Value Wiped Out on FTX Fallout"
369,470,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/15/liquid-global-crypto-exchange-bailed-out-by-ftx-halts-withdrawals/,"Liquid Global, Crypto Exchange Owned by FTX, Halts Withdrawals",The Japanese exchange was acquired by FTX earlier this year.,2022-11-15,"Liquid Global, which was bought by crypto exchange FTX earlier this year, said it is halting all withdrawals after FTX filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S.
In a tweet on Monday evening U.S. time, the company said that customers wouldn't be able to take out either fiat or cryptocurrency and that it will provide further updates ""when available.""
FTX, which had extended Liquid a $120 million loan in the wake of a $90 million hack in 2021 before agreeing to buy the exchange outright, didn't disclose how it much paid to purchase Liquid.
Due to the Chapter 11 filing by FTX Trading International the ultimate beneficial owner of Quoine Pte. Ltd, Liquid Exchage (Quoine Pte.) is halting all withdrawals - both fiat and crypto currency.

More information will be provided as it becomes available
Liquid is operated by Quoine, which is another entity that was named in FTX's bankruptcy filing last week. Quoine has applied to register with the Monetary Authority of Singapore, but the regulator said this week it will take the FTX developments into account.
Liquid's native token, QASH, is down by over 25% following the exchange's decision to halt withdrawals.
Read more: Japan's Liquid Global Exchange Hacked; $90M in Crypto Siphoned Off
CORRECTION (Nov. 15, 13:19 UTC): Corrects to say FTX bought the exchange; an earlier version said it had bailed it out following the 2021 hack.
UPDATE (Nov. 15, 14:24 UTC): Adds context throughout."
370,437,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/15/ftx-accounts-drainer-swaps-millions-in-stolen-crypto-becomes-35th-largest-ether-holder/,"FTX Accounts Drainer Swaps Millions in Stolen Crypto, Becomes 35th-Largest Ether Holder",The funds were converted to DAI stablecoins and bridged to the Ethereum network.,2022-11-15,"Whoever was behind last week’s $600 million exploit of crypto exchange FTX started moving millions of dollars in stolen funds during European morning hours on Tuesday.
The funds were siphoned from FTX's crypto wallets late Friday. Soon after, the exchange said on its official Telegram channel that it had been compromised, instructing users not to install any new upgrades and to delete all FTX apps.
Multiple addresses connected to the accounts drainer on Tuesday transferred more than 21,555 ether (ETH), or over $27 million, to a single address. The tokens were later converted to stablecoin DAI on the swapping service CowSwap, blockchain data shows.
The addresses, over several transactions, amassed over $48 million of DAI and swapped it all into 37,000 ether. The address now holds more than 288,000 ether and is the 35th-largest owner of the cryptocurrency, blockchain data pointed out by security firm PeckShield shows.
#PeckShieldAlert FTX Accounts Drainer has swapped 48.27M $DAI (~$48.36M) to 37.57k $ETH (~$47.69M) on Ethereum
Arbitrary loss: -$671,424.25
FTX Accounts Drainer currently holds 228,523.83 $ETH (~$288M) and makes the address become the 35th largest holder of ETH pic.twitter.com/8oukNomdDf
Separately, 7,420 BNB tokens that were stolen and that are worth just above $2 million were converted to 1,500 ether using BNB Chain-based exchange PancakeSwap. The exploiter then bridged the converted ether to the Ethereum network."
371,434,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/bernstein-the-collapse-of-crypto-exchange-ftx-more-like-enron-than-lehman/,Bernstein: The Collapse of Crypto Exchange FTX More Like Enron Than Lehman,"The broker sees a significant liquidity impact on the crypto market in coming weeks, which will hurt the smaller tokens.",2022-11-15,"The collapse of FTX and Alameda Research impacts the centralized finance (CeFi) part of the crypto industry the most, Bernstein said in a research report Monday. Part of the crypto ecosystem is exposed to this event, but it is not the entire industry, the report added.
The decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem and blockchain-based applications, “gain from this fragility, subject to some regulatory boundaries and negotiations,” analysts Gautam Chhugani and Manas Agrawal wrote. DeFi is an umbrella term for a variety of financial applications carried out on blockchains.
Bernstein says there needs to be a distinction made between the centralized custodial players in crypto, namely the exchanges, custodians, and crypto banks, as this is where regulation is coming. This will involve rules around maintaining reserves and uniform accounting for custodial firms, the broker said. Governments and regulators may also increase their scrutiny of offshore exchanges, where regulations are lighter, it added.
Binance market share is likely to increase following the FTX debacle, and Binance.com, which is offshore, is likely to continue along its arduous path of converting its exchange into a more onshore structure, the note said.
The broker sees a significant liquidity impact on the crypto market in coming weeks, which will hurt the smaller tokens.
“FTX feels closer to Enron than Lehman,” the report said. FTX was the third largest exchange with only a 10% market share, but the “noise it has created has been disproportionately more,” perhaps because of the profile of its founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who was hailed as the “genius industry savior.”
Enron and Lehman were two famous corporate collapses that occurred in TradFi in the years prior to the creation of the first cryptocurrency bitcoin (BTC) in 2009, and were the result of accounting scandals.
Echoing comments made by Wall Street rival Citi in a report last week, Bernstein says that decentralized exchanges (DEXs) continue to see traction, especially after the failure of FTX.
FTX’s failure could be the catalyst that forces the hand of regulators to accelerate regulation, the note added.
Read more: Morgan Stanley Says There Is Still Much Leverage in the Crypto Ecosystem"
372,251,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/analysis-ftxs-trumplose-token-isnt-proof-of-an-ftx-democrat-ukraine-conspiracy/,Analysis: FTX’s TRUMPLOSE Token Isn’t Proof of an FTX-Democrat-Ukraine Conspiracy,"TRUMPLOSE was part of FTX’s prediction market, where degens made big bucks betting on — or against — Trump or Biden during the 2020 election. Curiously, it’s still on the company balance sheet.",2022-11-15,"As Sam Bankman-Fried has fallen from grace to become crypto’s latest and greatest villain, Crypto Twitter and the conspiracy theory industrial complex is focusing on the presence of a token called TRUMPLOSE which still sits on the balance sheet of the company he once ran.
For those looking for a shadowy tale that involves crypto in the halls of power in D.C., TRUMPLOSE is going to disappoint. It’s not a new world order talisman that shows FTX and Sam Bankman-Fried are complicit in laundering money to the Democratic party through Ukraine donations. Rather, it’s one part of FTX’s prediction market it ran during the 2020 U.S. election.
FTX’S BALANCE SHEET ALSO HAS A MULTI MILLION DOLLAR POSITION IN A CRYPTO CALLED “TRUMPLOSE” LISTED AS AN ASSET.
During the U.S. election, FTX ran a series of prediction markets where traders could purchase TRUMPWIN or TRUMPLOSE tokens that would resolve to $1 should Trump have won or lost, or resolve to $0 if the opposite should occur.
Pollsters got the 2016 election dead wrong, and many thought that prediction markets would be a better source of alpha for the 2020 election.
“There are 25 or more years of data that show prediction markets do a better job predicting outcomes than polls,” Dr. Emile Servan-Schreiber, founder and CEO of Lumenogic and an expert in prediction markets, told Politico in 2014.
There was also a general TRUMP perpetual contract, which had the shape and feel of a crypto perpetual that FTX was famous for. Like the tokens, should Trump have won, it would have risen to $1, and when he lost, it fell to $0.
With such a turbulent election, the token moved fast and hard. Performance at the debates moved its price in real-time, as did announcements like Trump’s COVID diagnosis.
At the time, FTX said that $2 million in total trading volume in its TRUMP contract followed the COVID announcement.
Although some bought the WIN/LOSE token, or took a position in the contract out of partisan conviction, many treated the outcome of such a pivotal election as they would with any other cryptocurrency: as degenerate positions with the extreme leverage one could only enjoy during the prelapsarian days of the 2020 bull market.
While it’s strange that this token turned up on FTX’s balance sheet – especially now that it's illiquid as the election is long over – to the disappointment of those wearing the tinfoil hats, the explanation for it is much more mundane: TRUMPLOSE is just a hangover from a prediction market the exchange ran in 2020. There’s not much more to it."
373,461,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/first-mover-americas-ftxs-hacked-funds-are-on-the-move/,First Mover Americas: FTX's Hacked Funds Are on the Move,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 15, 2022.",2022-11-15,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The FTX hacker who drained $600 million from the crypto exchange began moving the stolen funds Tuesday. Having siphoned funds from FTX’s wallets on Friday, the attacker then amassed $48 million of the stablecoin DAI, before swapping it all for 37,000 ETH. The address now holds more than 288,000 ETH, making it the 35th-largest owner of the cryptocurrency, according to data by security firm PeckShield. FTX announced on Friday that it had been hacked only hours after it had filed for bankruptcy.
Solana DeFi applications have lost more than $700 million in value since the FTX debacle took hold at the start of this month. DeFi (decentralized-finance) applications in the ecosystem grew to $10 billion last November, with FTX founder Sam Bankman Fried among Solana’s chief proponents. That figure diminished with the broader crypto market contraction to sit at $1 billion on Nov. 2 this year, before shrinking dramatically to around $300 million with the FTX fallout. The more than 50% drop in the price of SOL, the network’s native token, has contributed to the fall. At the time of writing, SOL was priced at $14.64, compared with $32.64 at the start of this month.
FTX may have more than 1 million creditors, according to a court document that helps to explain the crypto exchange’s sudden descent into bankruptcy. FTX filed a motion to handle its overall group of entities rather than treating its various subsidiaries and arms as individual cases. The firm filed for bankruptcy on Friday, saying it had between $10 billion and $50 billion in assets and liabilities.
This chart shows bitcoin's liquidity on major exchanges, measured by market depth within 2% of the average price (the average of the current bid and ask prices being quoted) since January.
Liquidity has deteriorated significantly in the wake of FTX's collapse, with market depth falling from 11,800 BTC to a five-month low of 7,000 BTC.
Market depth refers to the degree of an asset's resilience to large buy and sell orders. The greater the depth, the more liquid the market is and vice versa.
FTX’s Failure Is Sparking a Massive Regulatory Response
Sam Bankman-Fried’s Unceremonious Exit Leaves ‘Alameda Gap’ in Crypto Markets
After FTX: Rebuilding Trust in Crypto’s Founding Mission"
374,260,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/15/tokens-of-alameda-backed-defi-projects-mapsme-and-oxygen-locked-up-at-ftx/,Tokens of Alameda-Backed DeFi Projects Maps.me and Oxygen Locked Up at FTX,Alameda Research led funding rounds into both companies in 2021.,2022-11-15,"Maps.me and Oxygen, two decentralized finance (DeFi) projects backed by disgraced entrepreneur Sam Bankman-Fried’s beleaguered Alameda Research, said in a statement Tuesday that over 95% of the overall supply of their tokens are being held at bankrupt crypto exchange FTX.
The statement also said that the projects' teams are considering all options on how to protect their platforms and have hired legal advisers to help.
In January 2021, Alameda Research led a $50 million investment in Maps.me – a mobile alternative to Google Maps with about 100 million users. One month later, it led a $40 million investment round in DeFi broker Oxygen with the hope of integrating Oxygen into Maps.me."
375,102,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/market-wrap-bitcoin-rises-on-encouraging-inflation-news/,Market Wrap: Bitcoin Rises on Encouraging Inflation News,The largest cryptocurrency hovered near $16.8K. Ether and other altcoins also surge.,2022-11-15,"The latest inflation data on Tuesday suggested that the U.S. central bank was winning its campaign against inflation, and crypto investors relished the news.
Bitcoin was recently trading above $16,700, up more than 2% over the past 24 hours. The largest cryptocurrency has been inching up since Monday even as fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s liquidity crisis and filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection widens. The Wall Street Journal reported that crypto lender BlockFi is preparing a potential bankruptcy filing because of its ""significant exposure"" to FTX.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
“Bitcoin is showing resilience here but it is hard to imagine investors are ready to test the waters until we learn more of the full contagion risk associated with FTX,” Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda wrote, although he warned that “if more exchanges or crypto companies pause withdrawals or limit activity, that will likely bring back the pressure on cryptos.”
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,250, up more than 3% from Monday, same time. Other major altcoins spent much of Tuesday in the green with the SRM, CEL and FTT tokens of embattled ventures Serum, Celsius and FTX jumping by well into the double digits over the past 24 hours. FTT was, nevertheless, recently trading at $1.80, a fraction of its near $36 highs earlier this year.
SRM slumped more than 72% over the weekend after DeFi protocols across the Solanda ecosystem began unplugging from Serum’s onchain exchange for fear that they didn’t know who wielded control – a concern fueled by a Friday hack of FTX. FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried was a major supporter of Serum.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was up about 1%.
Equity markets rose slightly, buoyed by supplier price index (PPI) data for October that arrived lower than expected, indicating that U.S. central bank monetary policies were staunching inflation. The tech-heavy Nasdaq was up 1.4%, while the S&P 500, which has a strong tech component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) climbed 0.8% and 0.1%, respectively.
Oanda’s Moya noted warily that a possible BlockFi bankruptcy could present crypto markets with their next big test. The lender denied rumors that a majority of its assets were held at FTX, but acknowledged on Monday that in addition to having deposits on the platform, it had an undrawn line of credit from FTX and obligations that FTX owed it.
“The next domino to fall appears to be BlockFi,” Moya wrote. “Contagion from FTX was widely expected to impact BlockFi despite their recent denial that a majority of their assets are custodied at collapsed crypto exchange FTX.”
By Glenn Williams Jr.
The FTX collapse marks a new starting point in how investors use exchange balances of BTC and ETH. Often, increases in the exchange balances for BTC and ETH implies bearish sentiment, as coins are sent to exchanges to ready them for sale.
But a comparison of current levels to levels prior to November 2022 may give investors a distorted view.
Now, the outflows might be signaling something very different: that users don’t want their coins sitting on the exchange – as a precaution against the risk of another deposit run similar to what just happened at FTX.
Read the full technical take here.
FTX Accounts Drainer Swaps Millions in Stolen Crypto, Becomes 35th-Largest Ether Holder: Multiple addresses connected to the accounts drainer on Tuesday transferred more than 21,555 ether (ETH), or over $27 million, to a single address. The tokens were later converted to stablecoin DAI on the swapping service CowSwap. The funds were siphoned from FTX's crypto wallets late Friday. Read more here.
Analysis: FTX’s TRUMPLOSE Token Isn’t Proof of an FTX-Democrat-Ukraine Conspiracy: TRUMPLOSE was part of FTX’s prediction market, where degens made big bucks betting on — or against — Trump or Biden during the 2020 election. Curiously, it’s still on the company balance sheet. Read more here.
Tokens of Alameda-Backed DeFi Projects Maps.me and Oxygen Locked Up at FTX: Alameda Research led funding rounds into both companies in 2021. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at some good news about low crypto prices.
Solana DeFi Sees Almost $700M in Value Wiped Out on FTX Fallout: FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was a prominent backer of the network.
Celsius is Owed $12M by Alameda Research, Newest Member of Bankrupt Crypto Club: The bankrupt crypto lender’s new CEO told the judge Celsius Mining has approximately 40,000 mining rigs.
Crypto Lender BlockFi Preps for Possible Bankruptcy Filing After FTX's Woes, WSJ Reports: The company had previously suspended withdrawals in wake of the collapse of crypto exchange FTX last week.
Meaning of FTX Fall Depends on One’s Politics, US Senate Hearing Shows: U.S. political parties take separate, opposing lessons from the crash of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire.
The ‘SBF Bill’: What’s in the Crypto Legislation Backed by FTX's Founder: The specter of the now-disgraced Sam Bankman-Fried looms large over the bill, but Sens. Debbie Stabenow and John Boozman plan to push ahead anyway.
Cathie Woods’ ARK Buys 315K Shares in Grayscale’s Bitcoin Trust: It was the fund's first purchase of the trust in almost a year-and-a-half.
Big Banks, NY Fed Start to Test Digital Tokens for 'Wholesale' Transactions: Citigroup, HSBC, BNY Mellon, Wells Fargo and Mastercard, are among the financial giants taking part."
376,66,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/serums-srm-tokens-double-in-price-after-emergency-fork-in-wake-of-ftx-hack/,Serum’s SRM Tokens Double in Price After Emergency Fork in Wake of FTX Hack,"The Serum token price rose as high as 32 cents, from a low of 12 cents just two days ago, as community members of the decentralized exchange scrambled to implement an emergency fork in the wake of security concerns triggered by the hack of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange.",2022-11-15,"Serum, a decentralized exchange protocol on the Solana blockchain, saw its SRM tokens soar in digital-asset markets Tuesday, as key backers of the project rallied around an emergency fork in response to the recent hack of Sam Bankman-Fried’s ailing FTX exchange.
The community forked the project – blockchain–speak for essentially copying the underlying software code and starting afresh – after warnings that security may have been compromised by the Nov. 11 hack.
The alarms had sent the SRM price plummeting, ranking the token among the biggest losers in crypto markets. The rebound turned the token into one of the biggest winners overnight.
The serum (SRM) price started soaring around 23:30 UTC Monday, reaching a high of 32 cents Tuesday, up from a low of 12 cents on Sunday. As of press time, the token had settled back to 29 cents. It’s still down 95% in the past year.
Jupiter Aggregator, a key liquidity aggregator for Solana DeFi, which plugs into Serum, tweeted Tuesday that it was already testing an integration of the new version and “will announce it as soon as it’s ready.”
The price jump was likely due to the community “rallying behind a fork,” though it’s “unclear how the SRM token would fare if the fork gains traction,” Riyad Carey, an analyst with the crypto analysis firm Kaiko Research, told CoinDesk.
Kaiko had noted in a research report Monday that the SRM tokens had suffered a sharp drop in market depth on crypto exchanges last week triggered by the collapse of Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, including the FTX exchange and trading firm Alameda Research.
That dynamic appeared to shift Tuesday: Based on the total number of SRM tokens on the Serum order book, SRM’s liquidity on Binance is now higher than pre-crash, according to Clara Medalie, director of research at Kaiko.
Medalie told CoinDesk that market makers have been “building up support on Binance for SRM since the crash.”
“Market makers are moving funds to Binance to support price,” she said. “Liquidity evaporated on nearly every other exchange.”
Solana co-founder Anatoly Yakovenko tweeted Nov. 12 that developers depending on Serum forked the program because “the upgrade key to the current one is compromised.” He said that “a ton of protocols depend on Serum markets for liquidity and liquidations.”
The effort to replace Serum with a community-led open-source version has renewed the market's interest, according to Brian Long, a prominent validator, in a tweet.
The FTX-Alameda fallout last week has pushed the Solana community to the edge. The Solana Foundation said Monday it held 134.54 million SRM tokens and 3.43 million FTT tokens on FTX when withdrawals went dark on Nov. 6.
Solana-based applications have also seen nearly $700 million in value wiped out, with a 70% drop from the $1 billion in total value locked (TVL) on Nov. 2 when CoinDesk first reported on Alameda’s troubling balance sheet.
Solana’s native token SOL saw a minor rebound on Tuesday, up 6% to around $14 Tuesday. The CoinDesk Market Index was up 2%.
Medalie said that a sudden price jump for SRM may not be a strong indicator in terms of future price movements because “there is still a large gap that Alameda left.”"
377,211,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/the-long-arm-of-ftx/,The Long Arm of FTX,It's hard to overstate how much FTX embedded itself into the broader world. That could drive some of the response to its collapse.,2022-11-15,"Two weeks ago, I thought the biggest story for the week of Nov. 8 would be the U.S. midterm election. Control of both the House and the Senate were up for grabs, with the future of crypto legislation at stake. All of that’s still true, but FTX collapsed in incredible and rapid fashion, with the effects reverberating throughout the world, and that’s really taken precedence in both crypto interest and national attention right now.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
FTX filed for bankruptcy last week, in what appears to be the most chaotic way possible.
The vibe has shifted. When Terra collapsed it was because it was a quirky crypto experiment that was obviously not going to succeed and thank goodness its effects were just limited to other crypto companies. Celsius and Voyager filed for bankruptcy and, wow wait, what were these companies doing with customer funds? Three Arrows fell apart – but again, hey it's a crypto hedge fund or something, the broader world isn't going to care.
FTX is something new. Partly because of how ridiculously this whole thing fell apart, partly because of just how insane some of what's been reported seems and largely because of how much FTX tried to become a part of the broader world, everyone is paying attention. That's going to lead to some interesting outcomes in the fallout.
I’m going to quickly recap what happened. For those of you who have not closed Twitter in the last 170 hours or so, feel free to jump down to the next subheading.
On Nov. 2, my colleague Ian Allison published a report revealing that much of the balance sheet for Alameda Research, a quantitative trading firm, was composed of a large amount of the FTT token, which is issued by the cryptocurrency exchange FTX. Alameda and FTX share the same founder and ownership, so this immediately raised some questions about the figures these companies were reporting and in particular, whether this meant that either company had all the funds they claimed.
Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder in question, took to Twitter to reassure investors that everything was fine. A few days later, he and Binance’s Changpeng Zhao announced Binance would acquire FTX. Then CZ pulled out. But FTX US was still fine, Bankman-Fried said.
And then on Friday, FTX Group filed for bankruptcy, including FTX US, Alameda Research and, bizarrely, a bunch of companies that weren’t actually under the FTX umbrella and were quite surprised to discover they were listed. A leaked Excel spreadsheet reported by the Financial Times suggested FTX had less than $1 billion in assets, against around $9 billion in liabilities (and was written in such a way that Bloomberg’s Matt Levine possibly went insane).
The bankruptcy filing was chaotic, to say the least. At the time of writing, we still don’t even have a full bankruptcy document. We just have the top sheet where FTX says loosely how many creditors it has (over 100,000) and checks off ranges for its assets and liabilities ($10-$50 billion for both).
*Editor’s note: FTX, Alameda and the various companies finally began filing more information late Monday night. Click here for more.
The sheer insanity of what happened was perhaps driven home late Friday night, when after everything else, the exchange was hacked (or “hacked”).
This story has naturally drawn mainstream attention from around the world. My friends have asked about it. My parents have asked about it. My parents' friends have asked about it.
And that is just one of the reasons why it's worth exploring just how deeply entrenched FTX became over the past two years or so.
It would be difficult to overstate the reach FTX had. Bankman-Fried was a major political donor over the past two years. He donated millions to the winning campaign of now-President Joe Biden in 2020. He donated to primary candidates and lawmakers from both parties this year.
Some of these lawmakers are already starting to announce they'll donate the funds tied to Bankman-Fried. CoinDesk continues to reach out to the rest.
GMI PAC, a political group backed by Bankman-Fried, saw 19 candidates it backed win.
Within the ordinary course of business, Bankman-Fried was testifying on crypto legislation before Congress and proposing novel ways of settling derivatives trades to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The chair of the CFTC expressed on multiple occasions how interesting the proposal was.
Bankman-Fried took photos with lawmakers and regulators.
There's also a conspiracy theory that FTX was a Democratic Party psyop designed to funnel crypto investors' money to the party as part of a broader push to kill crypto, or that Ukraine funneled money to the Democratic Party by way of FTX. Sometimes this theory also trades in antisemitic tropes. This is very dumb.
For one thing, Bankman-Fried didn't only donate to Democrats, though he was a major party donor. For another, he donated a lot to primary candidates who didn't win. Also, it’s probably worth noting that FTX Digital Markets Co-CEO Ryan Salame donated heavily to Republicans.
I'll trust that if you're reading this newsletter, I won't need to explain that antisemitism is bad (and also, for what it's worth, not even accurate).
Beyond that, though, FTX really did sponsor or partner with all sorts of things. There was FTX Arena, the home of the Miami HEAT basketball team. There was Major League Baseball, where every referee had an FTX patch on their jerseys. There was the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, which FTX helped funnel donations to. A Formula 1 team. The Golden State Warriors. The World Economic Forum. The University of California – Berkeley’s entire athletic department. Not one, but two different esports organizations. If you went to Boston, you saw FTX signs on the street. If you went to the Bahamas, you could attend multiple conferences with FTX branding. The company really was everywhere. That's a lot of normies who saw the name or logo somewhere, even if they didn't follow the crypto sector all that closely.
FTX worked with companies to issue Visa debit cards, Bankman-Fried had a sizeable stake in Robinhood and former world leaders and luminaries took the stage with him.
And this doesn’t even get into all the venture capital firms and others who invested in FTX.
A lot of these groups are now starting to cut ties with FTX. Unlike the Nationals’ Terra deal, it does not appear that many of these sponsorships were prepaid, meaning those groups now have to find new sponsors. And as for the rest of these companies or groups, I'd imagine they're going to be cutting ties and and the non-crypto folks are going to be asking a) how did a company with apparently no internal controls come to occupy such a large space in the world and b) what will regulators do to prevent this from happening again.
The backlash is going to be severe.
I spoke to several lawyers and D.C. insiders about the situation last week as things unfolded. One thing that’s clear: lawmakers are paying attention. There's talk of hearings, potentially before the end of this year, according to Ron Hammond at the Blockchain Association, an industry lobbyist group.
I wrote a bit about the different ways that backlash could evolve for CoinDesk on Monday.
One possible reaction is that regulators will become more proactive about how they oversee crypto, rather than reactive. This is the fourth major failure this year – Luna, Celsius, Three Arrows and now FTX. Is this going to spur actual global coordination around crypto regulation? Or even just unilateral action from entities like the Securities and Exchange Commission?
It’s not immediately clear to me what U.S. regulators could have done about FTX specifically, given it headquartered in the Bahamas.
We haven't heard anything specific on this yet, and I suspect it may take a while before we will. But the amount of attention FTX is getting makes me suspect that there will be pressure from lawmakers to act swiftly, rather than wait for the next shoe to drop.
And as Ken White, a former federal prosecutor and a partner at the Brown White & Osborn law firm, told me, this is the kind of “splashy” case that investigators would want to prosecute.
“There's tons of fraud and securities fraud out there and the Feds can't go after it all. The things they go after tend to be big in numbers or splashy or somehow sexy and high profile,” he said. “This is all those things. A huge amount of money, it's very public … it involves exciting new technology and new ideas and all that. It's exactly the type of case that the Feds would invest resources into going after.”
On the other hand, the financial shock appears to so far be contained within the crypto ecosystem. One issue several regulators had warned about pre-FTX was the possible contagion risk posed by crypto becoming a part of the broader financial system. So far, that hasn’t happened yet. That could blunt the regulatory response somewhat.
On another note, there is no way to succinctly sum up the sheer amount of coverage CoinDesk has published over the past week and change. Click here for a list of all our recent stories.
Fresh off the news that Democrats would retain control of the Senate for the next two years, U.S. President Joe Biden has nominated Acting Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chair Martin Gruenberg to a full term helming the agency. Senate Banking Committee Chair Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) praised the move. House Financial Services Ranking Member Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) called it a partisan section. And the Conference for State Bank Supervisors lamented the lack of state bank supervisors on the FDIC.
(The New York Times) Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried is still giving interviews. He spoke to the Times about recent events.
(The Washington Post) There was a tweet last week from a verified account claiming to be pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly. The tweet said that insulin would now be free. The actual Eli Lilly was surprised and unamused. It’s now canceling its Twitter ad buys.
(HSE University) Longtime readers will know I’m a nut for all things LEGO. A new study found that LEGO sets may actually be a pretty decent investment, as their value skyrockets after a few years when they cease being manufactured. Vindication!
Turns out Larry David was right about FTX 🤯 pic.twitter.com/2IxMjyD7V6
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
378,398,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/15/defi-protocols-are-winning-users-as-centralized-crypto-exchanges-suffer-ether-outflows/,DeFi Protocols Are Winning Users as Centralized Crypto Exchanges Suffer Ether Outflows,"In the wake of the downfall of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange, crypto traders are increasingly turning toward decentralized-finance (DeFi) protocols – as Ethereum tokens flow off big centralized crypto exchanges like Binance and OKX.",2022-11-15,"Decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols are surging in popularity – just as signs pile up that big centralized crypto exchanges are going in reverse.
According to data analytics platform Nansen, most DeFi protocols have experienced double-digit percentage growth in users and transactions in the past seven days, a sign of vitality following the collapse of FTX.
For example, dYdX, a decentralized crypto exchange on the Cosmos blockchain ecosystem, has seen users increase by 99% and transactions climb by 136%.
The growth is reflected in digital-asset markets: Despite 88% of digital assets in the DeFi sector declining in the week through Tuesday, amid the fallout from FTX's collapse, the price of the dYdX token (DYDX) is up 77%.
Within the CoinDesk Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), the DYDX token is categorized as a member of the CLOB (central order limit book) industry – the only one among 36 industries with a positive week-over-week return, according to CoinDesk Indices.
Aave, a decentralized lender, grew users by 70% and transactions by 99%.
Walter Teng, vice president of digital asset strategy at Fundstrat Global Advisors, told CoinDesk via Twitter, “As we are seeing the contagion from FTX unfold, users realize the importance of self-custody and transparency that DeFi protocols offer. As such, usage metrics across DeFi protocols have surged.”
Even though trust in centralized exchanges have fallen dramatically following the downfall of FTX, Uniswap, the largest decentralized cryptocurrency exchange, has experienced a 19% increase in users and 21% increase in transactions over the past 30 days, suggests Nansen data.
Uniswap’s 24-hour ether trading volume stands at $900 billion, at press time, which is more than Coinbase, OKX and Gate.io combined, according to CoinGecko.
Additionally, daily new transacting wallets of Uniswap’s Web App stands at 55,550, a 2022 high.
Uniswap Labs tweeted, “Self-custody and transparency are in demand and users are flocking to what they know and trust.”
Centralized exchanges have experienced a mass exodus of wealth as users are opting to store their cryptocurrencies elsewhere.
Among the centralized exchanges, Binance experienced the largest net outflow – outflows less inflows – of roughly $1.44 billion among exchanges in the past 7 days. This means that users on Binance have removed $1.44 billion more than they have deposited. (Nansen’s token flow value by exchange accounts for only ETH and Ethereum-based ERC-20 tokens.)
OKX ranked second with a negative net flow of $1.24 billion. FTX has the third largest net outflow of $900 million, while Kraken suffered a net outflow of $586 million.
According to Nansen, in the past 7 days, Binance, OKX, FTX, Kraken, KuCoin, Coinbase, Huobi, Gate.io, Gemini, Paxos, FTX US and Crypto.com have experienced a combined net outflow of $6.33 billion; Users have deposited $42.03 billion into those exchanges but withdrew $48.35 billion.
The significant outflows likely highlight a lack of user confidence and trust in holding funds on centralized exchanges."
379,396,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/15/solana-defi-sees-almost-700m-in-value-wiped-out-on-ftx-fallout/,Solana DeFi Sees Almost $700M in Value Wiped Out on FTX Fallout,FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was a prominent backer of the network.,2022-11-15,"At their peak last November, decentralized finance (DeFi) applications stored more than $10 billion on the Solana network, its popularity being led by high-flying proponents including Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of the FTX crypto exchange, Multicoin Capital, Sino Global Capital and other venture funds.
A year later, the total value locked (TVL) has dropped to just over $300 million with FTX filing Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and facing prosecution, Multicoin and Sino Global reporting multimillion-dollar losses and the Solana Foundation itself losing ""tens of millions.""
Bankman-Fried’s downfall translated to generally falling sentiment for Solana, given his prominent endorsement of the network. He once infamously told a crypto trader on Twitter: “I'll buy as much SOL has you have, right now, at $3...Then go f**k off,"" referring to the blockchain's native token.
While the $10 billion TVL on Solana has declined over the past year, with the price of SOL contributing to that drop, the past two weeks have been more drastic. More than $700 million has exited Solana-based applications, a 70% drop from the $1 billion in TVL on Nov. 2, when CoinDesk first reported on the collusion between treasury accounts at FTX and its sister company, Alameda Research.
SOL’s 50% price drop has contributed to that fall, alongside falling prices of related DeFi tokens.
Lending and borrowing platform Solend took the biggest hit both in percentage and value terms. It held over $280 million on Nov. 2 and now holds under $30 million. Data show a vast amount of stablecoins, wrapped bitcoin tokens and Solana-based tokens have left the protocol.
Data from DeFiLlama show Solana-based decentralized exchanges (DEXs) Raydium and Orca are now the largest decentralized applications (dApps) on the network, locking up over $51 million and $46 million respectively. Both have seen over 40% in liquidity exit the platform in the past week. And both held over $150 million just a few weeks ago.
Amid all the drama, some say the declines might help the market find a fair value for Solana and other networks.
“Solana has undoubtedly taken a massive blow, and the consequences of this blow seem far more dramatic and painful than for other blockchains,” Alexei Kulevets, co-founder of Walken told CoinDesk in a Telegram message. “Yet we’re in the midst of bear market, restless and unpredictable as it may be, it will eventually reveal the true worth of projects and token.""
Read more: FTX Hack Sparks Revolution at Serum DEX as Solana Devs Plot Alameda's Ouster"
380,309,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/ftx-fallout-adds-urgency-to-south-koreas-push-for-crypto-regulations-report/,FTX Fallout Adds Urgency to South Korea’s Push for Crypto Regulations: Report,An official at the Financial Services Commission says that unfair trade needs to be regulated.,2022-11-15,"Regulators stressed the need to have a regulatory framework in place during a meeting of South Korea’s National Assembly, given the failure of multi-billion dollar cryptocurrency exchange FTX, CoinDesk Korea reported on Monday.
The grouping was a follow-up to an emergency meeting held to protect investors after the collapse of Terraform Labs in May, the report said.
“As the market fell due to global austerity, Terra-Luna, Celsius and FTX failed one after another, making it a year of declining trust,” Lee Myung-soon, senior vice president of the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS), said at the meeting.
Kim So-young, vice chair at the Financial Services Commission (FSC) added that considering the urgency of protecting users, it was better to have minimum necessary regulatory standards in place and add to them, rather than waiting for international standards.
The FSS is responsible for examining and supervising financial institutions, under the broad oversight of the FSC which makes financial policy.
Kim said that the FTX crisis revealed the need to have regulatory mechanisms to prevent unfair trade and ensure virtual asset service providers fulfil obligations to protect user assets, and to forbid service providers from issuing tokens.
South Korea’s government officials are currently drawing up a comprehensive regulatory framework, the Digital Asset Basic Act, expected to be finalized next year. The act will be formed from 13 crypto legislative proposals currently before the National Assembly.
“Considering the rapid change in the digital asset market, the Financial Supervisory Service will actively support legislation through monitoring, so that overall regulations such as digital asset disclosure can be prepared,” Lee said.
Read more: South Korea's Financial Watchdog to Expedite New Crypto Rules: Report
Jey Kim contributed reporting."
381,458,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/16/temasek-prepares-to-write-off-as-much-as-300m-invested-in-ftx-bloomberg/,Temasek Prepares to Write Off Up to $300M Invested in FTX: Bloomberg,Singapore's state investment fund invested $400 million in both FTX and the crypto exchange's U.S. unit.,2022-11-16,"Singapore's state investment fund Temasek is preparing to write off between $200 million and $300 million, which it invested in bankrupt crypto exchange FTX, Bloomberg reported Wednesday.
Temasek invested in both the FTX mothership and its U.S. wing in concurrent funding rounds of $400 million each in January. The fund is now prepared to write off the entire amount of its investments, according to the report, which cited people familiar with the matter.
The fund has been among the most high-profile investors in the crypto industry of late: It has also invested in liquidity provider and market maker Amber Group and non-fungible token (NFT) investment firm Animoca Brands this year.
It remains to be seen to what extent having to write off $200 million to 300 million on the back of FTX's dramatic collapse will damp Temasek's appetite for the digital-assets industry. Temasek managed $294 billion in assets as of the end of March, according to Bloomberg.
FTX went from being one of the largest crypto exchanges in the world to filing for bankruptcy in little over a week after irregularities in the balance of sheet of its sister firm Alameda Research came to light following a CoinDesk report on Nov. 2.
Temasek didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Read more: The Long Arm of FTX"
382,84,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/16/first-mover-asia-ftx-debacle-might-change-hong-kongs-approach-to-retail-crypto-trading-bitcoin-shows-its-mettle/,First Mover Asia: FTX Debacle Might Change Hong Kong’s Approach to Retail Crypto Regulation; Bitcoin Shows Its Mettle,"The special administrative region of China wants to become a regional crypto hub, but FTX’s filing for bankruptcy protection could prompt regulators to tighten restrictions.",2022-11-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos
Insights: The FTX debacle may alter Hong Kong's approach to regulating cryptocurrencies.
Bitcoin, Ether Inch Upward
By James Rubin
Bitcoin showed its mettle for a second consecutive day, inching upward even as the post FTX crypto world was falling apart.
Investors bit into encouraging inflation data – a Labor Department report, showing supplier pricing (PPI) arriving cooler than expected – to keep the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization above $16,750, a gain of about 1% over the past 24 hours. BTC has been inching up since Monday even as fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s liquidity crisis and filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection widens. On Tuesday, The Wall Street Journal reported that crypto lender BlockFi is preparing a potential bankruptcy filing because of its ""significant exposure"" to FTX.
This article was adapted from Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
“Bitcoin is showing resilience here but it is hard to imagine investors are ready to test the waters until we learn more of the full contagion risk associated with FTX,” Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda wrote, although he warned that “if more exchanges or crypto companies pause withdrawals or limit activity, that will likely bring back the pressure on cryptos.”
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,250, up about 1% from Monday, same time. Other major altcoins spent much of Tuesday in the green with even FTX's FTT token climbing 20%. FTT was, nevertheless, recently trading at $1.81, a fraction of its near $36 highs earlier this year. SRM, another FTX-related casualty that had slumped more than 72% over the weekend, rose more than 3%. DeFi protocols across the Solana ecosystem unplugged from Serum's onchain exchange in recent days for fear that they didn't know who held control. FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried was a major supporter of Serum.
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market, was about flat.
Equity markets rose slightly, buoyed by October's PPI, indicating that U.S. central bank monetary policies were staunching inflation. The tech-heavy Nasdaq was up 1.4%, while the S&P 500, which has a strong tech component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) climbed 0.8% and 0.1%, respectively.
Oanda’s Moya noted warily that a possible BlockFi bankruptcy could present crypto markets with their next big test. The lender denied rumors that a majority of its assets were held at FTX, but acknowledged on Monday that in addition to having deposits on the platform, it had an undrawn line of credit from FTX and obligations that FTX owed it.
“The next domino to fall appears to be BlockFi,” Moya wrote. “Contagion from FTX was widely expected to impact BlockFi despite their recent denial that a majority of their assets are custodied at collapsed crypto exchange FTX.”
Will FTX's Collapse Change Hong Kong's Approach to Retail Crypto Regulation?
By Sam Reynolds
FTX’s epic collapse comes at an awkward time for retail crypto traders in Hong Kong. In late October, only days before the current catastrophe unfolded, the Hong Kong government announced its ambitions to be a crypto hub once again and was considering relaxing the prohibition on retail crypto trading.
“The SFC has been actively looking to set up a regime to authorize ETFs [that] provide exposure to mainstream virtual assets with appropriate investment guardrails,” Securities and Futures Commission Deputy Chief Executive Officer Julia Leung said at Hong Kong FinTech Week, as CoinDesk previously reported.
Hong Kong Monetary Authority CEO Eddie Yue added that these new technologies could “develop very nicely in a healthy financial system like Hong Kong” with the right regulation.
But Hong Kong’s authorities didn’t announce specific regulations. That’s going to come after a consultation period with the regulators themselves and industry stakeholders.
Now, how do you think these conversations will go after the news broke that FTX has one million creditors in its bankruptcy proceedings? Local exchange AAX also is on the brink of failure, suspending operations until a new capital raise can be secured.
Some of the million creditors cited in FTX’s bankruptcy will include hedge funds, institutional investors, or crypto entities – but some will also include retail investors, including Hong Kongers. If AAX goes under, who knows how many retail traders in HK will also be affected.
The outcome of this will be a strict set of rules for the retail trading industry. There will be limitations on how the exchange operates. Some of them might be for the better, like the required use of licensed custodians, but some of them might deter traders, such as limitations on what tokens are available.
Hong Kong regulators will certainly be cognizant of the risks of having overly strict regulations: The exchanges will be ghost towns and people will continue to trade offshore. But any regulator knows that regulation is a balancing act. Let’s see what the outcome is – if Hong Kong still wants to have retail crypto trading, that is.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Bank of England Consumer Price Index (YoY/Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Retail Sales (MoM/Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) Bank of Canada Consumer Price Index Core (YoY/Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Accounts Drainer Swaps Millions in Stolen Crypto; Journalism's Role in Crypto Industry
Whoever was behind last week’s $600 million exploit of crypto exchange FTX started moving millions of dollars in stolen funds. Plus, ConsenSys Head Economist Lex Sokolin weighed in on the crypto markets as bitcoin (BTC) flirts with $17,000. And CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael J. Casey discussed journalism's place in the crypto industry.
Crypto Lender BlockFi Preps for Possible Bankruptcy Filing After FTX's Woes, WSJ Reports: The company had previously suspended withdrawals in wake of the collapse of crypto exchange FTX last week.
ConsenSys Economist Still Has Hope for Crypto After FTX's Fall: Lex Sokolin said the sector can thrive if people develop useful applications based on blockchain technology.
On-Chain Data Shows Investors Waiting, Changing Custody Behavior: Trust in exchanges is understandably low after the collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX. Investors might trust the asset more than the entity that holds them.
Collapse of Crypto Exchange FTX Sees Long-Term Bitcoin Holders Shift to Distribution: A sustained decline in bitcoin owned by long-term holders may mean a widespread loss of conviction, Glassnode said.
Serum’s SRM Tokens Double in Price After Emergency Fork in Wake of FTX Hack: The Serum token price rose as high as 32 cents, from a low of 12 cents just two days ago, as community members of the decentralized exchange scrambled to implement an emergency fork in the wake of security concerns triggered by the hack of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange."
383,139,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/16/top-house-committee-to-hold-hearing-into-ftx-collapse/,Top House Committee to Hold Hearing Into FTX Collapse,The House Financial Services Committee plans to hear from FTX and related entities during a hearing next month.,2022-11-16,"The House Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing into FTX next month, the committee announced Wednesday.
Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), respectively the chair and ranking member of the committee, said in a joint statement that the lawmakers would want to hear about the collapse of the crypto exchange and its ""broader consequences"" for the cryptocurrency ecosystem. The committee plans to hear testimony from now-former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried and representatives from FTX, its sister company, Alameda Research, and Binance, which briefly suggested it would acquire FTX.
FTX's collapse harmed over a million users, Waters said in a statement,
""Unfortunately, this event is just one out of many examples of cryptocurrency platforms that have collapsed just this past year,"" she said. ""... [I] know that we need legislative action to ensure that digital assets entities cannot operate in the shadows outside of robust federal oversight and clear rules of the road.""
In his own statement, which called FTX's failure a ""debacle,"" McHenry said the committee needs to understand what happened for FTX's customers and the American public, citing Congress' role in oversight.
""It’s essential that we hold bad actors accountable so responsible players can harness technology to build a more inclusive financial system,"" he said.
FTX filed for bankruptcy last week, days after CoinDesk reported a balance sheet belonging to Alameda held a large amount of FTX's own FTT token, raising questions about the amount of real money on either company's books.
The early days of the bankruptcy filing were chaotic. FTX US, which said it wouldn't suspend withdrawals, temporarily did. The parent exchange was hacked on Friday night. And the Securities Commission of the Bahamas said over the weekend that it hadn't ordered FTX to allow local users to withdraw funds, contradicting the reason FTX gave for re-enabling withdrawals in the country days after suspending all withdrawals.
Numerous federal and state regulators are currently investigating FTX.
In a hearing on bank regulators, McHenry expanded on his views, calling it a ""dumpster fire"" and taking aim at Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler for being ""more interested in chasing headlines than bad actors.""
""FTX users have been left out to dry. The digital asset ecosystem is in limbo,"" he said. ""... “We’ll explore all of this at the upcoming hearing but let me say this: Congress must develop a clear regulatory framework for the digital asset ecosystem, including trading platforms.""
Read more: FTX's New Leadership Is in Touch With Regulators, May Have Over 1M Creditors, New Filings Say
UPDATE (Nov. 16, 2022, 15:20 UTC): Adds additional context.
UPDATE (Nov. 16, 2022, 16:00 UTC): Adds a quote from McHenry."
384,75,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/16/the-ftx-collapse-looks-an-awful-lot-like-enron/,The FTX Collapse Looks an Awful Lot Like Enron,Alameda and FTX were built on false asset values driven by deceptive self-dealing. So was America's most notorious corporate fraud.,2022-11-16,"The corpses of FTX and Alameda Research are barely cold, but financial coroners are already deploying scalpels and bone saws to try and figure out what went wrong. These autopsies are far from complete, but the findings so far suggest deep parallels between the Alameda and FTX blowup and the most infamous business fraud in American history – the Texas-based energy trading con Enron (ENE).
Those parallels are extensive and nuanced, even apart from the strange twist that Enron's former lawyer is the new CEO of FTX. But one core similarity is the role of publicly-traded, equity-like assets ultimately linked to the performance of the firms themselves. In both cases, these internal assets flowed between entities that were nominally or even legally separate, but that in fact served the same masters. This enabled egregious financial self-dealing in the form of balance sheets pumped up by fictional valuations, a very fragile form of bootstrap leverage that unwound rapidly as soon as the falsely-inflated assets began to waver.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
FTX’s FTT token appears to have been the largest linchpin of Sam Bankman-Fried’s house of cards. The token was nominally intended to give FTX users a discount on trading fees. But in practice its market price reflected sentiment about the performance of FTX itself, much as a stock tracks the performance of a public company. CoinDesk’s Ian Allison reported on Nov. 2 that a huge portion of Alameda Research’s balance sheet consisted of the FTT token, including some valued at its public price, and locked positions valued at half of that.
This raised alarms for a number of reasons, including by undermining the (already tenuous) idea that FTX and Alameda Research were truly separate operations. It remains unclear how exactly Alameda wound up with the FTT in the first place, but one theory is that the fund participated in the initial sale of FTT. If FTX and Alameda operated in tandem, which seems increasingly clear, this could be considered fraudulent price manipulation.
The findings were also concerning because the FTT tokens were accounted for at prices much higher than they likely could have actually fetched on the open market. Alameda reportedly held half of all existing FTT, a position that would have been impossible to liquidate without tanking the price. This became clear when rival exchange Binance began selling its own FTT stake in reaction to CoinDesk’s reporting, immediately triggering a 75% collapse in the token’s price.
As my colleague Tracy Wang noted last night in a Twitter Spaces event, FTT was not the only asset on FTX or Alameda’s balance sheets subject to similar dynamics. Both entities also held large illiquid stakes in tokenized projects either launched or heavily backed by FTX or Bankman-Fried, including SRM (Serum), MAPS (Maps.me), OXY (Oxygen Network) and FIDA (Bonfida). By providing initial funding, FTX would have played a major role in setting the initial value of these projects’ tokens. Moreover, there is strong evidence that these were, like Alameda itself, not truly independent projects at all.
See also: 4 Key Takeaways from the FTX Fiasco | Opinion
That would mean the value of any of those tokens reflected on Alameda or FTX’s balance sheets were effectively fictional. Very, very fictional: a leaked FTX balance sheet claimed holdings of SRM worth $2 billion dollars, when the entire market value of the token was $88 million.
These dynamics are damningly similar to at least two methods by which Enron artificially inflated its stock price: the use of spinoff entities to hide debt, and the use of mark-to-market accounting to claim revenues that didn’t exist.
The most prominent of the spinoff gambits was Chewco, a supposedly independent investment firm created to buy out the California state pension fund CalPERS’ position in a prior partnership with Enron called JEDI. That project had failed badly, but Enron couldn’t afford for the failure to become obvious by letting CalPERS sell its position on the open market.
So Enron created Chewco to bid on the CalPERS position. Chewco was nominally independent, but was in fact funded, owned and run by Enron and its executives, and ultimately backed by the value of Enron’s own stock through a secretly guaranteed bank loan. Chewco bought out CalPERS at an inflated, and fundamentally fraudulent, price.
In nearly the same way, any trade in FTT tokens between Alameda and FTX, or use of FTT for loan collateral, would have reflected a false valuation, because Alameda was not independently pricing the true value of the FTT tokens. The presence of tokens like MAPS and OXY on the Alameda and FTX balance sheets, and their possible use as collateral for borrowing, similarly echo Enron’s use of mark-to-market accounting to manipulate its revenue.
Enron's most infamous mark-to-market maneuver was an early 2000 deal with Blockbuster Video, then a popular retail chain for movie rentals, to build a video streaming service.
This sounds like a well-timed idea, and Enron thought so too – it immediately claimed $110 million in profits from the project, before a single wire was laid or line of code written. This revenue helped pump Enron’s stock price in the quarter the deal was announced, in turn giving it more leverage to deploy in similarly circular fashion. Unfortunately, the Blockbuster streaming project collapsed soon after when movie studios objected, meaning those already-announced profits evaporated retroactively. That ultimately helped unwind the entire Enron fraud.
See also: From Enron to Wirecard: How Blockchain Tech Could Have Helped
One of the fundamental flaws of using venture-style investing to launch publicly tradable tokens is that the same deceptive mark-to-market pricing dynamic is in some sense “baked in.” Unlike a private investment, these tokens immediately begin circulating in public markets, valued based on implied future revenue.
But the FTX tokens circulated only in very small amounts, while the prices derived from that thin trading were translated back to FTX and Alameda’s huge illiquid holdings. This profound distortion of financial reality is sometimes referred to as “low flow, high FDV,” for “fully diluted value.”
When the curtain was pulled back and reality reasserted itself, both for FTX and Enron, the whole charade fell apart."
385,785,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/16/matter-labs-nets-200m-to-build-zksync-ethereum-scaling-platform/,Matter Labs Nets $200M to Build zkSync Ethereum Scaling Platform,"A week after zkSync V2’s “baby alpha” launch, Matter Labs said it would open-source its code and push for improved standards around rollup development.",2022-11-16,"Ethereum development firm Matter Labs has raised a monster $200 million to support the launch of its zkSync V2 rollup network, one of the major platforms vying for dominance in a crowded competition to reduce Ethereum’s fees and increase its transaction speeds.
Matter Labs’ Series C funding round, which closed before the market was roiled by the collapse of crypto exchange FTX, was co-led by Blockchain Capital and Dragonfly, and was joined by venture capital heavyweights including Variant, Lightspeed Venture Partners and Andreessen Horowitz.
Alongside its funding announcement, Matter Labs pledged to file its core software under an MIT Open Source license by the end of 2022, meaning third parties will be allowed to view, use and augment zkSync’s code.
Additionally, Matter Labs Chief Product Officer Steve Newcomb told CoinDesk that his team had begun “talking about the research that we're putting into understanding how to generate a ‘Fair’ token standard,” though he stopped short of announcing an official token.
Matter Labs did not disclose a valuation to CoinDesk, but the new funding brings the total amount raised by the firm to $458 million – a large sum, even in the wild world of crypto, that Matter hopes will put it on solid footing in the deeply competitive Ethereum scaling race.
""When Google raised money just before the .com crash, it made them a king,” Newcomb wrote in a message to CoinDesk following an interview last week. “[N]o matter how bad this bear market gets, we are well positioned well to grow our team, ship our protocol and ship our mission.""
Read more: Ethereum Scaling Platform zkSync v2 Goes Live Amid Controversy
Rollups exist as a way to ease Ethereum’s high fees and slow speeds, which have iced out users and bred a number of competing networks and copycats.
zkSync is a kind of zero-knowledge (ZK) rollup platform – a so-called “layer 2” network that processes transactions separately from Ethereum, bundles them up, and passes them back down to the main Ethereum network so they can be written to its ledger for a fraction of the cost of normal transactions.
Read more: What Are Rollups? ZK Rollups and Optimistic Rollups Explained
ZK rollups use complex cryptographic seals called zero-knowledge proofs to ensure that the transactions they pass down to Ethereum reflect real user activity. This fancy computer code, which is supposed to prevent a central party (like Matter Labs) from spoofing transactions, is considered a breakthrough in the Ethereum scaling race since it will eventually make transacting on zkSync similar – security-wise – to transacting on Ethereum itself.
Other companies in addition to Matter Labs, like the research-oriented Scroll platform and the Ethereum juggernaut Polygon, are progressing on their own ZK-rollup platforms. Together, these firms represent the first cohort of a new class of so-called zkEVMS – ZK rollups which, unlike past applications of the technology (including an older version of the zkSync network), will be able to support virtually any program that runs on Ethereum.
The version of zkSync that launched on Ethereum in October, the “baby alpha” version of zkSync V2, is only open for internal testing by the Matter Labs team. According to a public roadmap put out by the firm, any whitelisted project will be able to launch on zkSync to run their own tests in a soon-to-arrive update to the platform, with users eventually gaining access to the platform in a subsequent update slated for late 2022 or early 2023.
“One of the things we want to educate people on with ZK technology is by the fact that we have not concentrated on performance yet,” said Newcomb, warning that initial transaction speeds and fees may not initially be as impressive as hoped. “We're just getting everything working right now,” he continued.
So far, Newcomb says that over 150 projects – including major decentralized finance platforms like Uniswap and Aave – have committed to launching on zkSync, which he hopes will bolster the platform’s chance of becoming a dominant player in a crowded field of competing rollups.
When zkSync V2 launched on Ethereum’s mainnet last month, it did so amid questions about whether its core technology – the complicated zero-knowledge proofs that are supposed to secure user funds – is ready for prime time.
In response to a widely shared tweet from one of zkSync’s competitors questioning the existence of zkSync’s driving technology, Newcomb shared evidence with CoinDesk of its zero-knowledge prover working to verify transactions end-to-end.
Read more: The Sudden Rise of EVM-Compatible ZK Rollups
“We have publicly verifiable links all over the place for people doing proofs on test net. We have it launched on mainnet,” said Newcomb. “That's why we celebrated [the baby alpha launch] so much, because getting an end-to-end prover for general purpose contracts is a very, very big deal.”
To prevent similar controversy in the future, Newcomb said that Matter Labs would open-source its code under the relatively permissive MIT License – a step that some competing platforms have yet to take. Newcomb also said that Matter Labs would support wider Ethereum community efforts to standardize best practices around how rollups should launch and communicate limitations to users.
zkSync, unlike several other scaling platforms, has no token associated with its platform. The much-hyped launch of the V2 of its platform has led to speculation that a token might be coming.
Newcomb says that Matter Labs will likely be “the last project” to launch a token, but he did hint at how a zkSync token could eventually be distributed.
According to Newcomb, a third of tokens would go to “shareholders” in zkSync, which could include Matter Labs employees and investors. The other two-thirds would apparently go to the zkSync “ecosystem,” though it's unclear exactly how or to whom those funds would be disbursed.
“We have no comment whatsoever on anyone trying to have strategies for token drops,” said Newcomb."
386,114,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/16/binance-denies-accusation-from-uk-lawmaker-that-it-deliberately-sank-ftx/,Binance Denies Accusation From UK Lawmaker That It Deliberately Sank FTX,The exchange pointed to a CoinDesk article that set off a series of events that led to FTX's bankruptcy filing.,2022-11-16,"Binance, which is the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume, denied it planned to deliberately sink rival FTX after being questioned by lawmakers in the U.K.
The exchange sent the Parliament's Treasury Committee a five-page document outlining the sequence of events that led to the FTX collapse on Wednesday after promising to do so at a hearing on Monday.
In the document, it said the initial catalyst was a CoinDesk article on how most of Alameda Research's assets consisted of FTT, FTX's own token. Alameda is a trading firm affiliated with FTX. FTX has since filed for bankruptcy.
""It is clear from the above that the causes of the collapse of FTX were the financial irregularities and possible fraud initially reported in the CoinDesk article on 2 November,"" the document stated.
The Treasury Committee held a hearing on Monday to question officials from crypto companies in the aftermath of FTX's collapse, and Daniel Tinder, Binance's vice president of governmental affairs of Europe, offered to send the document after Member of Parliament Harriett Baldwin, who is chairwoman of the committee, asked if Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao ""brought about the collapse of FTX?""
The committee also asked Trinder if Binance knew its actions that included unloading much of its FTT holdings on the market and agreeing to acquire FTX before backing out of a deal could lead to the collapse of FTX.
""But it must have been apparent when that decision was taken that was likely to cause the collapse of FTX, one of your major competitors,"" Baldwin said.
Read more: Crypto Industry Participants Field Questions from UK Lawmakers After FTX Collapse"
387,432,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/16/crypto-assets-decline-following-genesis-suspension-wont-scare-away-institutional-investors/,"Crypto Market Slides After Genesis Withdrawal Halt, but Big Investors May Hunt for Bargains","Most digital assets traded lower on Wednesday as another crypto firm gets hit by the FTX contagion, although institutional investors may be looking for bargains.",2022-11-16,"Digital assets extended losses on Wednesday after the crypto financial firm Genesis Global Capital announced that it was temporarily suspending redemptions and new loan originations, the latest industry player to struggle in wake of crypto exchange FTX's meltdown.
Bitcoin (BTC) dropped 3.5% to $16,456 during U.S. morning trading hours on Wednesday, according to CoinDesk data, erasing some of the prior day’s gains. At press time, bitcoin was changing hands at $16,473.
The cryptocurrency also appeared buffeted by an economic data release showing that U.S. retail sales rose 1.3% in October, a sign that consumers are resilient going into the holiday season. That might mean the Federal Reserve will maintain its aggressive campaign to tamp down economic activity to combat inflation – typically a negative factor for risky assets like stocks and cryptocurrencies.
“We don’t expect any sharp drops or selling pressure due to contagion fears alone since the bulk of the move is likely to be priced in already,” said Joe DiPasquale, CEO of BitBull Capital, a firm that manages crypto hedge funds. “At this point, any new development will result in temporary drops, but we don’t expect investors to be shocked by more FTX-related ramifications either. That being said, recovery from these lows may need time, both in terms of market capitalization and general sentiment.”
Will Tamplin, a senior analyst at technical research firm Fairlead Strategies, said that if bitcoin can’t get back above its long-term support near $18,300 by Sunday’s weekly close, “a major breakdown would be confirmed in a bearish message from the market, which would increase risk to next support near $13,900.”
The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which measures the performance of 162 major digital assets, lost about 1.8% over the past 24 hours.
Smart-contracts platform Solana’s native SOL token slid 0.2% to around $14 after the Solana Foundation confirmed in a blog Wednesday that FTX entities are in control of around 50 million SOL tokens.
The blog said the tokens were sold from Solana Foundation to FTX and Alameda Research in three transactions between August 2020 and January 2021. The second and third transactions had a linear monthly unlock mechanism, meaning that as the SOL token tranches are to be paid out evenly once a month to FTX, the entities could gradually gain access to millions of tokens up until January 2028.
Aptos, the new layer 1 blockchain established by former employees of Facebook parent Meta Platforms, was one of the few winners Wednesday. The APT token was up 11% to $4.70 in recent trading.
While FTX’s collapse and its ramifications for the broader crypto industry are a serious blow, it won’t scare away institutional investment from entering the market, according to Sheraz Ahmed, managing partner of Storm Partners.
“General speculation and panic will continue,” Ahmed told CoinDesk, but he said that institutional investors’ “choices are more likely to be informed by how innovation and technology could benefit them.""
“They will most likely rethink their short-term strategies as the market infrastructure remains unstable.”
Once all the stakeholders directly and indirectly affected by the fall of FTX absorb the losses, “we could see institutions swoop in at the lows with their heavy pockets,” he added."
388,144,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/16/market-wrap-genesis-withdrawal-suspension-looms-over-cryptocurrencies/,Market Wrap: Genesis Withdrawal Suspension Looms Over Cryptocurrencies,Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies fell as investors chewed over the industry’s latest debacle.,2022-11-16,"Et tu, Genesis Global Capital? The lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading temporarily suspended redemptions and new loan originations, adding to the rapidly widening fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s collapse.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Interim CEO Derar Islim told customers on a call that Genesis is exploring solutions for the lending unit, including finding a source of fresh liquidity. He said Genesis intends to detail its plan to clients next week.
Genesis Global Capital serves an institutional client base and had $2.8 billion in total active loans as of the end of the third quarter of 2022, according to the company’s website. Genesis owner Digital Currency Group (DCG) is also the parent company of CoinDesk.
Islim added that Genesis’ trading and custody services via Genesis Trading, which acts as Genesis Global Capital’s broker/dealer, remain fully operational. Genesis Trading is independently capitalized and operated from the lending arm, Islim said.
""Today Genesis Global Capital, Genesis's lending business, made the difficult decision to temporarily suspend redemptions and new loan originations. This decision was made in response to the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion,"" said Amanda Cowie, vice president of communications and marketing at DCG.
Genesis’ announcement is the latest entanglement to FTX’s liquidity crisis and subsequent filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last week. The industry is already reeling from multiple debacles earlier this year, including the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the LUNA token that backs it.
But Dr. Anna Becker, CEO and co-founder of alternative investment firm EndoTech, sees the FTX crisis as a potential building block for the industry. “The improper custody of funds and reckless risk management continue to have a devastating impact on innocent consumers. It is totally unacceptable…We urge those who continue to build this industry, as well as the SEC, FDIC and other regulatory bodies to work together in order to ensure the well-being of investors and uproot bad actors from our industry.
Bitcoin fell about 1.5% over the past 24 hours to trade at about $1,600 as investors considered the latest debacle to afflict the crypto industry. Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,200, off more than 3%. Other major cryptocurrencies were largely in the red with FTX’s FTT token declining more than 14% and Serum’s SRM dropping more than 6%. FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried had been a major supporter of Serum, a decentralized exchange protocol on the Solana blockchain.
Digital asset manager Grayscale Investments sought to reassure investors they will not be affected by Genesis Global Capital suspending withdrawals in the wake of FTX's collapse. Grayscale is a unit of Digital Currency Group, the parent company of Genesis Global Capital and Grayscale. Grayscale announced via Twitter on Wednesday that ""Genesis Global Capital is not a counterparty or service provider for any Grayscale product.""
Crypto investors in the U.S. filed a class-action suit accusing Sam Bankman-Fried and the company’s host of paid celebrity promoters, including NFL quarterback Tom Brady, comedian Larry David, tennis player Naomi Osaka and NBA team the Golden State Warriors, with fraudulently promoting FTX yield-bearing account (YBAs). The plaintiffs called the FTX platform “a house of cards” and “Ponzi scheme... where the FTX Entities shuffled customer funds between their opaque affiliated entities, using new investor funds obtained through investments in the YBAs and loans to pay interest to the old ones and to attempt to maintain the appearance of liquidity.”
By Glenn Williams Jr.
For both BTC and ETH, the magnitude of price movement since January 2022 has been declining, when using the Average True Range of daily price movement as a proxy.
A lack of price movement gives investors less opportunity to generate gains. Now, as investors focus more on avoiding calamity than producing alpha, a new trading range appears to be forming around the $16,500 level for BTC.
Where previously the market saw significant price agreement between the $19,000 to $20,000 range, the recent turmoil has pushed it to a lower level.
Read the full technical take here.
Crypto Market Slides After Genesis Withdrawal Halt, but Big Investors May Hunt for Bargains: Most digital assets traded lower on Wednesday as another crypto firm gets hit by the FTX contagion, although institutional investors may be looking for bargains. As of press time, Solana’s SOL token slid 1% to $14. Aptos was one of the few winners Wednesday. The APT token was trading around $4, up 10% in the past 24 hours. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at reflections on Effective Altruism.
Market Maker B2C2 Offers to Buy Loans From Genesis Crypto-Lending Unit
Grayscale Declares 'Business as Usual' Despite Sister Company Genesis Global Capital Suspending Withdrawals
These Crypto Market Makers Were Wary of FTX Before Collapse
DeFi Giant MakerDAO Speeds Up DAI Transactions and Withdrawals, Expands to Arbitrum, Osmosis:
U.S. Crypto Investors Sue FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried, Company’s Celebrity Endorsers
Top House Committee to Hold Hearing Into FTX Collapse
Matter Labs Nets $200M to Build zkSync Ethereum Scaling Platform"
389,213,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/16/market-makers-were-wary-of-ftx-before-collapse/,These Crypto Market Makers Were Wary of FTX Before Collapse,"B2C2, Kairon Labs and a few others had concerns about the exchange and its sister firm Alameda Research before liquidity concerns became headlines.",2022-11-16,"The collapse of crypto exchange FTX has inflicted losses far and wide in the industry. The surrounding market turbulence has crypto lender BlockFi reportedly eyeing bankruptcy protection and the lending arm of Genesis Global Trading – owned by CoinDesk parent Digital Currency Group – pausing redemptions and new loans. The debacle has also stoked some pejorative aspersions of crypto as a den of heedless risk taking.
A few big trading firms saw the FTX trouble brewing and took quick action or stuck to risk-mitigation procedures to quickly reduce their exposure amid the throes of the exchange’s collapse. The takeaway might be that the nascent crypto industry does include some savvy players with long-term survival practices that could keep liquidity pools filled, providing a degree of stability during one of the largest shakeouts in the industry’s 13-year history.
Trading firm B2C2 says it turned down an FTX-related loan request. Kairon Labs pulled assets from FTX on a hunch before the exchange imploded. And Amber Group softened its exposure during the withdrawal pause.
“We didn’t really look into it too much, but withdrew 98% of our company’s assets that were on FTX as a precaution, which turned out to be a good move,” Kairon Labs co-founder and managing partner Jens Willemen told CoinDesk in a Telegram message.
The implosion of FTX started with a CoinDesk report that fueled insolvency concerns and a withdrawn buyout offer from rival Binance and that led to a withdrawal pause. The exchange giant then filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
The fallout put a spotlight on a key crypto entity known as the market maker – essentially trading firms that use their own capital to make bets on tokens and take the other side of trades on exchanges when other players are trying to get in or out quickly.
FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried himself has roots in the business: He got his start at Jane Street, a quantitative trading firm and liquidity provider that has a foothold in the crypto industry. He then founded Alameda Research, the trading firm and major market maker that triggered the liquidity crisis.
B2C2, which announced a CEO change on Friday and offered to purchase loans from Genesis’ books on Wednesday, was approached by FTX sister firm Alameda Research for lending earlier this year, according to a source familiar with the matter. B2C2 declined the offer for unspecified reasons.
B2C2 co-founder and director Max Boonen recently tweeted that he suspected Alameda Research was behind an attempted attack in 2019 on exchange Binance’s then-new futures platform. Binance had a data leak that year that revealed customers' private orders, which the attacker used to set up a strategy of selling large quantities while simultaneously placing bids 30% below.
Boonen alleges now that he suspected then the attacker was Alameda, linked to supporting data, and said that was why he avoided working with the firm over the years.
Alameda didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
B2C2 didn’t have direct exposure to FTX’s native FTT token or Alameda at the time of the collapse, but had up to $9 million in assets on FTX as a “secondary trading venue,” said a spokesperson – an amount within B2C2’s “established single-exchange risk tolerance” and small enough to have no meaningful impact on operations.
Belgium-based market maker Kairon Labs heard about a month ago that FTX/Alameda was “secretly blowing up,” Willemen told CoinDesk. The information came to the firm from a close contact at a top Asian exchange. Despite not having concrete evidence, Kairon Labs decided to act.
Willemen declined to provide a specific figure, but confirmed the amount Kairon Labs pulled from FTX was in the seven figures.
Amber Group, another market maker, tweeted on Nov. 9 that the firm had no exposure to Alameda Research or FTX’s native FTT token, but had been an active participant on the exchange.
“While we have significantly reduced our exposure over the course of the week, we still have withdrawals that have yet to be processed,” the firm wrote at the time of the withdrawal pause, noting that the stuck assets represented less than 10% of Amber Group’s total trading capital.
Trading firm Wintermute tweeted Nov. 9 that it had reduced its exposure to FTX after the insolvency concerns started. During the withdrawal pause, some of its funds were stuck, but the amount was “within our risk tolerances and does not have a significant impact on our overall financial position,” Wintermute said.
Two days later, Wintermute said it had stopped trading and market-making operations and moved all of its assets from FTX US, a separate legal entity from the main FTX exchange.
The most recent update came from Cumberland, one of the earliest and longest-standing crypto market makers, which disclosed last week that it had less than $10 million in FTX exposure and no exposure to Alameda. The firm tweeted on Wednesday that its team was working “24/7 to provide liquidity and we are actively quoting across the market.”
Read more: Jefferies CEO Expressed Doubts About Sam Bankman-Fried in July"
390,210,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/16/ftx-employees-were-encouraged-to-keep-life-savings-in-the-now-bankrupt-exchange-sources-say/,"FTX Employees Were Encouraged to Keep Life Savings in the Now-Bankrupt Exchange, Sources Say","Sources told CoinDesk that FTX was used as a bank by many of its employees. Now, their money is probably gone.",2022-11-16,"Retail and institutional investors weren’t the only ones to get rug pulled by FTX’s swift and stunning collapse last week.
In addition to losing their jobs at the now-bankrupt exchange, many of FTX’s employees also appear to have significant amounts of personal wealth locked in the platform – wealth that is likely gone after being sucked into the black hole of the FTX disaster.
FTX’s deficit was allegedly created, according to a Wall Street Journal report last week, by former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried’s penchant for playing fast and loose with customer funds, using them to cover the debts of his quant trading firm, Alameda Research, violating the exchange’s own terms and conditions.
Former FTX Head of Marketing Nathaniel Whittemore, who is also a CoinDesk podcaster, said this week that he and the majority of the exchange’s other employees had no idea about the allegedly fraudulent treatment of customer funds. His account rhymes with claims other former employees have made on social media, as well as a CoinDesk report last week that showed Bankman-Fried’s inner circle may have had an unusual level of control over the company.
Read more: Bankman-Fried’s Cabal of Roommates in the Bahamas Ran His Crypto Empire – and Dated. Other Employees Have Lots of Questions.
In an episode of The Breakdown released Monday, Whittemore said that employees were kept in the dark, and that many of them – especially FTX’s non-U.S. staff – used the exchange like a bank, and did not know that their savings had already allegedly been squandered.
“You have to understand just how devastated the average FTX employee was” after Binance’s bailout of FTX fell through, Whittemore said. “Not only, then, did it seem that they might be out of a job, but they were also potentially facing the total loss of their savings.”
Another former employee who asked to remain anonymous seconded Whittemore’s claim, telling CoinDesk that many of FTX’s staff kept the money from their paychecks at the exchange because it was convenient, utilizing FTX’s easy fiat off-ramps to withdraw money when they needed.
Employees’ use of FTX as a bank was encouraged by Bankman-Fried and other higher-ups, according to former employees speaking to CoinDesk on the condition of anonymity.
According to anonymous Twitter account Autism Capital, after FTX bought out Binance’s shares in the company last year, employees were encouraged to invest in FTX.com at a 50% discount, which the company promised to match up to $250,000 – a deal that was allegedly heavily promoted internally. That equity, along with other employee funds (including bonuses sometimes given out in the form of FTT, the exchange’s native token) was then allegedly stored on the FTX platform.
A former employee confirmed the veracity of Autism Capital’s allegations, and provided CoinDesk with a screenshot of an internal spreadsheet that appears to show FTX employees’ holdings as part of a larger list of investments in the platform.
It is currently unclear whether any employees were able to withdraw their funds from the exchange before withdrawals were halted.
If Whittemore’s account on the Breakdown is anything to go off of, the likely answer is “no.”
“For me, all I could feel was rage and white, hot anger as Sam and those around him wouldn’t even give these people the fucking courtesy of a message on Slack to give them any explanation for what they could expect,” Whittemore said.
“It wasn’t just … that Sam and a small group around him perpetrated fraud, which they did,” Whittemore added. “From the moment the fraud was called out and the market started to react, every single ounce of their effort went into self preservation,” he added. “It was callous, cruel and utterly devoid of any genuine human consideration.”
Representatives for both FTX and Bankman-Fried did not return CoinDesk’s requests for comment."
391,469,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/16/first-mover-americas-ftx-fallout-reverberates-throughout-crypto-land/,First Mover Americas: FTX Fallout Reverberates Across Crypto-Land,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 16, 2022.",2022-11-16,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The fallout continued from this month’s crypto crash, with the Bahamas arm of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange filing for bankruptcy in in the U.S. and a report that the digital-asset lender BlockFi was reportedly preparing a potential bankruptcy filing because of its exposure to FTX. Online investing platform BnkToTheFuture has dropped a plan to acquire the crypto lender Salt Lending due to FTX exposure. The political backlash is growing, too. Lawmakers in Washington grilled U.S. financial regulators on Tuesday.
The FTX debacle has brought deep dislocation in digital-asset markets, and analysts are racing to make sense of it all and what comes next. The art of “on-chain analysis” – the practice of extracting data from on-chain transactions and then interpreting it – is one of the first areas to get tested; historically, outflows from big crypto exchanges meant that investors were getting more bullish, moving their coins to long-term custody or storage to hold for the medium or long term. But a recent uptick in outflows might mean that investors are losing faith in the exchanges. Data also shows that crypto traders are increasingly turning to decentralized-finance (DeFi) protocols for their exchange and lending needs.
It’s now been more than a week since the price of bitcoin hit a two-year low at around $15,600, and questions are invariably forming on whether the market bottom is in. The largest cryptocurrency’s price has inched back up to $16,600. Price charts suggest a drop down to $13,000 is still possible, and traders in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s bitcoin futures market appear to be piling into a big “short” trade – bets on further price declines. What’s clear from the data over the past two weeks is just how much cryptocurrencies trade in sync when there’s a big market shakeout: Check out this analysis of the correlations between CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) sectors. On the other hand, the idiosyncratic drivers might be creeping back: The decentralized-exchange protocol Serum’s SRM tokens doubled in price Tuesday as key backers of the project rallied around an emergency fork in response to last Friday's hack at FTX.
The chart shows gold-backed cryptocurrencies like PAXG and XAUT have put in a positive performance in the past seven days, decoupling from the broader market swoon.
These cryptocurrencies might become safe havens as other tokens reel under the pressure of FTX's collapse and gold prices rise on the back of a weaker dollar.
Gold has gained 9% this month, reaching a three-month high of $1,768 per ounce, while the dollar index has dropped nearly 5%.
– Omkar Godbole
Genesis’ Crypto-Lending Unit Is Halting Customer Withdrawals in Wake of FTX Collapse
Luna Foundation Guard Spent $2.8B Defending UST Peg, Third-Party Audit Finds
FTX Debacle Might Change Hong Kong’s Approach to Retail Crypto Regulation; Bitcoin Shows Its Mettle"
392,474,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/17/ftx-crypto-tax-loss/,The Tax Implications of the FTX Bankruptcy,"As of right now, all funds are frozen, which means FTX users are stuck. What will this mean for taxpayers?",2022-11-17,"The crypto world has been shaken by the biggest black swan event in its 13-year history. FTX has become insolvent and all funds on the exchange are frozen.
The FTX situation is no fun for anyone, especially if you had funds on the exchange. But there are some silver linings from a tax perspective. I’m a certified public accountant (CPA) and I’ve been in crypto since 2014, so unfortunately this isn’t the first time I have seen taxpayers lose (or potentially lose) some or all of their crypto holdings due to an exchange being shut down.
Laura Walter is a CPA and the founder of Crypto Tax Girl, a cryptocurrency tax firm. Joe Howe is a crypto tax specialist at Crypto Tax Girl. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Tax Week.
We still don’t know what will ultimately happen with FTX, but in the meantime, here’s my advice on how to make the most of this bad situation.
FTX filed bankruptcy, which means customers with assets on FTX could still get a portion of their funds back – or they could get nothing at all (as we saw with the long drawn-out cases of Mt. Goxand Cryptopia). So while in limbo, how and when should this potential “lost” money be reported on your tax return?
The best thing you can do at this moment is get any documentation you can from FTX about your account (CSV files of all transactions including withdrawals, deposits, trades and income, as well as screenshots of balances and account info). In light of the recent hack on FTX though, please proceed with caution when trying to get documentation.
See also: Tax and Compliance Challenges Enterprises Face in Crypto | Opinion
As of right now, all users’ funds are frozen and FTX has halted withdrawals, so FTX users are stuck. This unfortunately means that from a tax perspective, there is nothing you can do yet. Because there is still a chance that your funds will be recovered, you cannot deduct any losses, and you aren’t required to report any gains.
If, however, the funds don’t end up being recovered and the exchange gets shut down (as we’ve seen with Mt. Gox, QuadrigaCX, BTC-E, Cryptsy, Celsius and so many others), I would recommend classifying tokens lost on FTX as worthless investment losses, and taking a capital loss in the year that it is determined that the tokens are deemed worthless.
Per the Internal Revenue Service: “If you own securities, including stocks, and they become totally worthless, you have a capital loss…Worthless securities also include securities that you abandon. To abandon a security, you must permanently surrender and relinquish all rights in the security and receive no consideration in exchange for it.”
Though crypto is not considered a stock or security, it is also subject to capital gains and losses, which are reported on Form 8949, so this also applies here.
Read more: Why NFT Tax-Loss Harvesting Remains a Challenge for Investors | Opinion
Because users were holding funds on FTX with the intent to invest them, I take the position that if funds are not returned to users, they have a worthless investment. This means that users’ assets held on FTX can be treated as a sale for $0 on the last day of the year in which it becomes clear they will not be getting their funds back (i.e., the investment becomes worthless), and deduct the cost of the tokens lost as a capital loss on Form 8949.
It is important to note that you cannot take a capital loss for the current fair market value of the tokens. Rather, you would take a loss for the original cost basis of the tokens (i.e. what was paid for them or the value of the tokens when you acquired them).
It is also important for users to wait to take the worthless investment loss until they’re sure that they won’t ever recover their funds. This is because if they do end up recovering them in the future, they would need to include the value of the tokens at that time as income, which may end up being more costly.
As soon as we get more clarification on what the future holds for FTX, I will start advising clients to either treat their funds on FTX as worthless investments or as traditional capital gains or losses. For now, we'll all have to wait out the storm and cross our fingers that our FTX funds aren’t lost forever. I’ll also be crossing my toes."
393,611,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/crypto-exchanges-binance-and-okx-suspend-support-for-solana-versions-of-usdt-usdc-stablecoins/,"Confusion Abounds As Binance and OKX Suspend Support for USDC, USDT on Solana, Then Backpedal","Binance subsequently resumed deposits for Tether's USDT on Solana, while OKX reworded an original statement saying it delisted the tokens.",2022-11-17,"Updated at 17:50 UTC: OKX updated its announcement saying it halted support instead of delisting the tokens. Changed headline to reflect recent updates.
Updated at 15:58 UTC: Binance has resumed deposits for USDT, according to a new blog post.
Binance and OKX suspended support for the Solana blockchain versions of the two largest stablecoins – Circle’s USDC and Tether’s USDT – the exchanges announced separately in blog posts on Thursday.
While Binance said it temporarily suspended deposits of USDC and USDT on Solana until further notice, OKX went further saying it was delisting the tokens effective Thursday at 3:00 UTC.
Binance has since resumed deposits for USDT on Solana, the exchange said in a new blog post. Later, OKX updated its announcement with a slightly changed wording, saying that it halted support for the two tokens instead of delisting them.
Binance and OKX did not return requests for comment at press time.
Solana is one the largest blockchains, and its close ties to the imploded crypto empire of Sam Bankman-Fried – FTX and Alameda Research were key investors – appears to be weighing heavily on the project and its ecosystem.
Read more: Solana Foundation Invested in FTX, Held Millions in Sam Bankman-Fried-Linked Cryptos on Exchange
The exchanges didn't explain the reasons behind the move, which created confusion in the crypto industry.
Jeremy Allaire, CEO of USDC issuer Circle, tweeted that USDC on Solana – which is natively issued by Circle – is functioning fine. “[It’s] not clear what the motivations are for exchange actions, which are disappointing.”
USDC on Solana is natively issued by Circle and is functioning fine. Not clear what the motivations are for exchange actions, which are disappointing.
Last week, crypto exchange Crypto.com decided to halt deposits and withdrawals of the Solana versions of USDC and USDT, citing “recent industry events."""
394,783,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/17/hong-kong-regulator-calls-for-tough-rules-despite-crypto-hub-ambitions/,Hong Kong Regulator Calls for Tough Rules Despite Ambitions to Be Crypto Hub,"Julia Leung, deputy CEO of Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission, highlighted DeFi as an area that needs regulations.",2022-11-17,"Crypto service providers are moving from the fringe to provide a full range of financial services, making a ""light touch"" regulatory approach “far from adequate,” a Hong Kong regulator said on Thursday.
Julia Leung, deputy CEO and executive director at Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission (SFC), said that the recent turmoil in crypto markets highlighted not only the volatility and structural vulnerabilities in the industry, but also how it is becoming more connected with traditional financial services.
Leung's comments during a speech at a crypto conference in London comes just as Hong Kong expressed a desire to open itself up to crypto – and possibly relax its tough regulations.
International cryptocurrency exchange FTX, which filed for bankruptcy last Friday, was once based in Hong Kong, and sources told CoinDesk that the exchange still has staff in the city.
Leung noted that Hong Kong’s opt-in regulatory framework requires that client assets be separated from a firm's own assets. To address conflicts of interest, it prohibits virtual-asset platforms from trading on their own account and they can't lend or pledge client assets.
Centralized virtual-asset trading platforms operate in ways similar to stock exchanges and broker-dealers, Leung said, adding that the SFC will hold the platforms to similar standards that apply to stock exchanges and broker-dealers.
She noted that the SFC had announced its opt-in framework for centralized trading platforms in 2018 but that authorities could apply the full force of their legal power only to platforms willing to trade at least one security token.
Only two companies in Hong Kong, OSL and HashKey, are licensed under the opt-in regime. Most retail investors in the city use unlicensed platforms.
A bill now in Hong Kong’s Legislative Assembly would expand the existing regulatory regime to platforms that don't trade security tokens. If that bill is passed, all centralized platforms would need to be licensed by the SFC, whether or not they trade security tokens, although they would receive a grace period.
Leung said that given recognition of the growing investor demand for virtual assets, particularly among private banks and hedge fund customers, it was important for regulators to provide clarity to banks, brokers and fund managers.
“Many financial institutions are now exploring how to tokenize financial assets or develop their own tokens on private blockchains,” Leung said.
The SFC plans to issue a notice to clarify that tokenized debt securities as digital representations of traditional securities on the blockchain should be treated in a similar way as existing conventional securities, she said.
Leung also spoke about decentralized finance, saying that “most DeFi activities operate outside any regulatory system”.
According to Leung, some operators are intentionally elusive to minimize liability and regulatory scrutiny. She said that regulators worldwide have reached a consensus on a coordinated approach and that they would be “relentless” in pursuing DeFi regulation."
395,1075,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/17/republicans-secure-us-house-majority-will-shift-path-for-crypto-bills/,"Republicans Secure US House Majority, Will Shift Path for Crypto Bills","Results from the Nov. 8 U.S. election finally saw Republicans win at least 218 seats, splitting control of Congress as urgency for crypto legislation is on the rise.",2022-11-17,"The U.S. Congress will officially be split between the two major parties after results from the Nov. 8 election put a 218th seat in the Republican column, giving that party a majority in the House of Representatives as the crypto industry awaits legislation that could define its future.
The Associated Press reported late Wednesday that California Republican Mike Garcia won reelection in the state's 27th Congressional District, giving the party the 218 seats needed for control.
The Republicans had long been expected to win the House, though their eventual majority will be unexpectedly slim, and Democrats managed to fend them off from taking over the Senate. While a small number of House races still await final results, Republicans can now expect to soon install their new speaker of the House and – importantly for the crypto industry – new leaders for House committees.
The digital assets lobbyists, trade associations and political action committees had prepared for a divided Congress and the industry can now focus attention on a handful of committees and a few bills expected to be recycled from the current session. Republicans will soon be running the agendas on the House Financial Services Committee – expected to be chaired by Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) – and the House Agriculture Committee, where Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.) is currently the ranking Republican. Those panels will be crucial for future crypto bills.
As it stands, McHenry has already been a key negotiator for legislation that could establish rules for stablecoins – tokens typically tied to assets such as the dollar – meant to keep steady values as they’re used to buy and sell more volatile digital currencies. McHenry has been in talks with the current chairwoman, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), and both have projected confidence about an agreement eventually being possible.
Thompson and others on the agriculture panel, which oversees the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), have long been pushing bills such as the Digital Commodity Exchange Act to set up wider rules for the industry. Another bill being weighed by the Senate and House agriculture panels, the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act, found some traction this year (including public backing by now-disgraced former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried), but has also drawn industry criticism for its potential effects on decentralized finance (DeFi).
The new Congress starts work on Jan. 3. Until then, the so-called lame duck session will see current lawmakers – some of them finishing out their time in the Capitol – working on legislation that has to pass before the end of the year.
On Wednesday, former president Donald Trump announced his candidacy to regain the presidency in 2024."
396,448,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/market-wrap-crypto-respond-sideways-to-ftx-and-related-crises/,Market Wrap: Crypto Respond Sideways to FTX and related crises,"The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently up about 1% and hovering comfortably over its $16,000 support of the past nine days.",2022-11-17,"Investors and other interested crypto parties had a landscape of industry devastation to survey on Thursday – FTX related and otherwise.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
In the immediate foreground was CoinDesk scoopmeister Ian Allison’s report that Binance was preparing a bid for bankrupt lending platform Voyager Digital, citing a person familiar with the plans.
A previous auction, which was completed around the end of last September, saw the now defunct FTX emerging as the “white knight,” winning out against rivals Wave Financial and Binance. At the time, CoinDesk had also reported that Binance's bid for the U.S.-based Voyager had been shut out due to national security concerns.
The story dovetails with Binance CEO Changpeng “CZ” Zhao’s comments that his exchange, the world’s largest by trading volume, is setting up an industry recovery fund to help rebuild the industry. Voyager’s VGX token was recently up more than 48% on the news.
Looming in the background, was the widening fallout from FTX’s liquidity crisis stemming from an earlier Allison report about the misappropriation of its FTT token and filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Brutal assessment. On Thursday, FTX’s Interim CEO John Ray, who has witnessed more than his share of corporate incompetence overseeing the bankruptcies of energy company Enron and other major companies, offered this take: ""Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred here,"" Ray said in a court document filed on Thursday.""From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.""
Crypto markets responded to the latest events with their recent sangfroid, with bitcoin and other major cryptos trading sideways, some tokens a bit to the green and others slightly in the red. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently up about 1% and hovering comfortably over its $16,000 support of the past nine days. Ether was recently changing hands above its most recent about $1,200 support, off a couple of smidgens of a percentage point. XRP was recently up nearly 3% but the popular meme coins DOGE and SHIB were down slightly.
Meanwhile, Binance and OKX suspended support for the Solana blockchain versions of the two largest stablecoins – Circle’s USDC and Tether’s USDT – the exchanges announced separately in blog posts on Thursday. While Binance said it temporarily suspended deposits of USDC and USDT on Solana until further notice, OKX went further saying it was delisting the tokens effective Thursday at 3:00 UTC. Binance subsequently resumed deposits for USDT on Solana, the exchange said in a new blog post. Later, OKX updated its announcement with a slightly changed wording, saying that it halted support for the two tokens instead of delisting them.
Equity markets also remained largely oblivious to crypto’s growing crisis with the tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average all falling a few fractions of a percentage point. Stocks and cryptos correlation on Thursday offered a veering from recent weeks when the two asset classes showed increasing independence from one another.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Funding rates have turned positive for bitcoin in an early, albeit hopeful sign that market sentiment is shifting positive. A positive funding rate reflects increased demand for long positions, indicating improved investor sentiment.
However, this trend should be viewed in the context of eight prior days of negative funding, and bears watching, as the sharp decline on Nov. 9 may represent an overshoot to the downside.
The foundation for a potential short squeeze will have been laid, if this plays out.
Read the full technical take here.
Voyager token surged after a report that Binance will offer a lifeline to the bankrupt crypto lender. Voyager Digital's native coin, voyager (VGX), jumped 55% at one point in the trading day after CoinDesk reported that Binance's U.S. arm is relaunching a bid to purchase the bankrupt crypto lending platform. Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July, citing more than 100,000 creditors and as much as $10 billion in assets and liabilities.
Binance and OKX raised confusion. The exchanges suspended support for USDC, USDT on Solana, then backpedaled. Binance subsequently resumed deposits for Tether's USDT on Solana, while OKX reworded an original statement saying it delisted the tokens.
Ether staking yields jumped to 25%. That's an all-time high since the merge. Just staking ether (ETH) on Lido is paying out 10% annualized, while a more elaborate move bumps yield to as much as 25%.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at tax wars.
Alameda Had ‘Secret Exemption’ From FTX Liquidation Protocols, New CEO Says
FTX Affiliate Alameda Research Loaned $4.1B to Related Parties – Including $1B to Sam Bankman-Fried
Bahamas May Have Directed 'Unauthorized' FTX Transactions, Filing Says
FTX Exploiter Swaps Thousands of Stolen BNB Crypto Tokens Into Ether, BUSD
‘Proof of Reserves’ Emerges as a Favored Way to Prevent Another FTX
UC Berkeley Suspends Stadium Naming Rights Deal With FTX
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Has ‘Boots on the Ground’ at FTX Subsidiary LedgerX"
397,416,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/17/proof-of-reserves-emerges-as-a-favored-way-to-prevent-another-ftx/,‘Proof of Reserves’ Emerges as a Favored Way to Prevent Another FTX,"Several exchanges, including Binance, have announced plans to use the auditing technique to reassure customers.",2022-11-17,"Crypto exchange FTX collapsed spectacularly into bankruptcy last week as trust in its accounting for billions of dollars in assets vanished.
In the fiery aftermath, some critics are blasting the very existence of centralized exchanges like Sam Bankman-Fried’s, saying they haven’t been reliable stewards for customers’ assets.
But the blowup has reinvigorated the discussion about a potential solution, something called ""proof of reserves,"" or PoR, a way of showing – with little or no doubt – exactly how many tokens are at any exchange that adopts the technique. If in place at FTX, proof of reserves could have in theory prevented customers’ money from being moved where it shouldn’t have been (to Bankman-Fried’s trading firm Alameda Research).
Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume, has already shared its wallet balances and says it plans to conduct a proof-of-reserves snapshot “in the next few weeks.” Other exchanges that have made similar commitments include Gate.io, KuCoin, Poloniex, Bitget, Huobi, OKX, Deribit and Bybit.
Read more: Indian Crypto Exchange Giottus Says It Will Provide Proof of Reserves, While Rivals Remain Silent
Proof of reserves is an auditing technique used to confirm assets on hand. Stablecoin issuers like Paxos use it to prove they have sufficient assets backing their tokens, while exchanges like BitMEX use it to prove customer deposits correspond to assets in custody.
“It would have been a pretty solvable problem if there was more transparency on the balance sheet. We already power multiple stablecoins and multiple gold coins and multiple financial institutions, where we prove their balance sheets through proof of reserves,” Sergey Nazarov told CoinDesk in an interview. Nazarov is the co-founder of oracle network Chainlink, which offers a proof-of-reserves product.
There are several ways for an entity to prove its asset reserves, from traditional third-party audits by companies like Armanino to ""Merkle tree proofs"" (cryptographic verification via data structures called Merkle trees).
Read more: Proof of Reserves: Could It Have Prevented the FTX Meltdown?
Then there are methods employed by blockchain analytics companies. Chainlink, for example, separates proof-of-reserves implementation into two categories: off-chain and on-chain.
The off-chain alternative involves a third-party provider like Chainlink receiving API (application programming interface) access from an exchange, its custodian or its auditor to independently verify the exchange’s holdings.
The on-chain route involves a proof-of-reserves smart contract on one network (usually Ethereum) that receives data feeds (on a block-by-block basis) from Chainlink’s oracle network about a provider’s on-chain wallet balances on another network (e.g., Bitcoin).
Either way, the result is users can verify a company is actually holding the assets it claims to be holding.
Eric Richmond is a corporate and securities lawyer turned crypto entrepreneur. He founded and ran Tetra Trust, Canada’s first licensed digital-asset custodian in 2019. He is now the chief operating officer at Coinsquare, one of Canada’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges.
Read more: Canadian Digital Asset Brokerages Coinsquare and CoinSmart to Merge
Coinsquare is a registered investment dealer that reports to the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC), a self-regulated collection of more than 170 dealers similar to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (Finra) in the U.S. Richmond believes while proof of reserves is a step in the right direction, regulation might be a better solution.
“We have an obligation to run daily reports to view our client liabilities versus assets in cold storage,” Richmond explained. “Every single day, we ensure one-to-one in cold storage, which is a requirement of ours under IIROC registration.”
Cold storage means keeping assets offline, not connected to the internet.
Other experts like Nic Carter believe proof of reserves is “the industry’s last hope in terms of making a strong self-regulatory commitment.” Carter is a general partner at Castle Island Ventures, a firm that invests in crypto financial infrastructure.
“Lord knows we need to represent to regulators that we are capable of self-regulation, especially after FTX shattered confidence like this,” Carter told CoinDesk.
“PoR would inhibit situations like Quadriga, FTX or Gox. If any exchange now refuses to do one, I should expect that people will be extremely skeptical of them,"" he said.
In the 2019 collapse of QuadrigaCX, Canada’s largest cryptocurrency exchange at the time, it was later revealed its late founder and CEO, Gerald Cotten, had misappropriated and misused client funds, leaving only a fraction of value behind for its creditors to claim. In the 2014implosion of Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox, poor security practices and questionable fund activity resulted in a massive hack. Creditors are still fighting to regain some of those lost funds. The downfall of those platforms, like the collapse of FTX, forced the industry to consider significant improvements to fund and custody management.
Peter Eberle, president and chief investment officer of Castle Funds, a cryptocurrency-focused investment firm, echoed Carter’s comments.
""I believe this will force exchanges to be more transparent. They will need to prove that they are not commingling funds and that they are not lending out customer assets. They will have to earn trust from customers that they actually have the assets that they say they do,” Eberle told CoinDesk. “Audited financial statements, proof of reserves, will be standard going forward. This is something that should always have been the case, but wasn't.""
Johnny Lyu, CEO of KuCoin, one of the largest global cryptocurrency exchanges, also agrees the industry needs more transparency. He says his organization has already started to provide attestations.
“This is a matter of self-regulation within the entire industry. In terms of our next steps, we'll look at our internal data, and then find out what kind of data can really reassure our users. And then we'll work with the third parties to disclose data as needed,” Lyu told CoinDesk in an interview. “So far, we've already disclosed information for the bigger and more influential tokens, including ethereum and BTC.”
Read more: Let’s Actually Commit to Proofs of Reserve This Time, Okay?"
398,142,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/17/us-senators-warren-durbin-probe-ftx-collapse/,"US Senators Warren, Durbin Probe FTX Collapse",The Democratic senators sent letters to both FTX’s current and former CEO demanding answers about what went wrong at the bankrupt exchange – which they say “appears to be an appalling case of greed and deception.”,2022-11-17,"After the spectacular implosion of FTX last week, questions about what brought the once-mighty exchange to its knees are swirling – and lawmakers want answers.
Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) sent a letter on Wednesday to both the Bahamas-based exchange’s former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, and its current CEO, former Enron clean-up man John Jay Ray III, who replaced Bankman-Fried after FTX and its 130-odd subsidiaries declared bankruptcy on November 11, asking for more information about what precipitated the exchange’s collapse.
Warren and Durbin, both longtime, outspoken crypto skeptics, said the collapse of FTX – which, until recently, had a $32 billion valuation and was largely perceived as one of the most stable exchanges in the industry – “justify our long-standing concerns that the crypto industry ‘is built to favor scammers’ and ‘designed to reward insiders and to defraud mom-and-pop investors’.”
Bankman-Fried's father, Stanford law professor Joseph Bankman, helped Warren draft legislation for her Tax Simplification Act in 2016, and was previously a donor to her campaign.
Their letter kicks off an investigation into the collapse of FTX and the behavior of Bankman-Fried and his close-knit circle of fellow executives, who have been accused of self-dealing and fraud – behavior the Senators say “appears to be an appalling case of greed and deception.”
Warren and Durbin’s letter establishes a timeline for FTX’s collapse, beginning with CoinDesk’s report on Nov. 2 that Bankman-Fried’s quant trading firm Alameda Research’s holdings were largely comprised of FTT, FTX’s native token – a revelation that sparked a liquidity crisis as investors lost confidence and began withdrawing funds from the exchange.
Despite Bankman-Fried’s initial assurance to investors that their assets were fully backed on Nov. 7, the exchange halted withdrawals the next day, and Bankman-Fried’s promises were revealed to be baseless. On Nov. 8, rival exchange Binance indicated its interest in a potential bail out, but pulled out of the deal the next day, claiming FTX’s issues were “beyond our control or ability to help.”
After the Binance acquisition fell through, FTX’s remaining fall from grace was swift and chaotic.
“One thing is clear: the public is owed a complete and transparent accounting of the business practices and financial activities leading up to and following FTX’s collapse and the loss of billions of dollars of customer funds,” the Senators wrote in their letter.
By Nov. 28, Ray and Bankman-Fried are required to provide Warren and Durbin with information and documents about FTX and its subsidiaries’ balance sheets, the cause of the exchange’s liquidity crisis, its rationale for buying bankrupt crypto exchange Voyager Digital, and whether reports that Bankman-Fried and other executives built a “backdoor” into FTX’s accounting system to allow them to alter financial records and move money around without alerting other people are accurate.
The current and former FTX CEOs are also required to provide historical data about FTX’s transfers to Alameda Research, the relationship between FTX and Alameda Research, and what happened to the missing customer funds.
Warren and Durbin’s letter also demands answers – and internal communications – about the late-night hack on Nov. 11, which saw hundreds of millions of dollars drained from FTX-controlled wallets.
Both U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Gary Gensler and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Chairman Rostin Behnam, whose agencies are investigating the exchange alongside the U.S. Department of Justice are cc’d on the letter."
399,299,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/17/alameda-had-secret-exemption-from-ftx-liquidation-protocols-new-ceo-says/,"Alameda Had ‘Secret Exemption’ From FTX Liquidation Protocols, New CEO Says","John Ray detailed a litany of management failings at the crypto exchange, which collapsed after revelations about its relationship with its trading arm",2022-11-17,"Alameda Research, the trading vehicle at the center of Sam Bankman-Fried’s and FTX’s downfall, had a “secret exemption” from the crypto exchange’s liquidation procedures, according to bankruptcy filings Thursday.
The revelation in a court filing, though scant on details, would indicate that Alameda held an advantage when making risky leveraged trades on FTX. Crypto derivatives exchanges such as FTX automatically sell the collateral of traders who borrowed its money to place bets that turned south.
15) A few weeks ago, FTX was handling ~$10b/day of volume and billions of transfers.

But there was too much leverage--more than I realized. A run on the bank and market crash exhausted liquidity.

So what can I try to do? Raise liquidity, make customers whole, and restart.
John J. Ray III, the new CEO of FTX who characterized Alameda as a ""crypto hedge fund,"" cited “the secret exemption of Alameda from certain aspects of FTX.com’s auto-liquidation protocol” among a list of poor security and financial controls that have been uncovered since he took control of the company in the early hours of Nov. 11, shortly before it filed for bankruptcy in a U.S. court.
The blurred lines between Alameda and FTX, two supposedly separate businesses, has proved crucial in the collapse of the company. It was the revelation by CoinDesk that Alameda’s balance sheet was stuffed with FTX-issued tokens that led to questions about the company’s financial health, eventually snowballing into insolvency.
The allegations are part of a litany of poor management practices highlighted by Ray, previously responsible for sweeping up the mess left by Enron, who said FTX was the worst failure of internal controls and record-keeping he has seen in his 40-year career.
Ray also highlighted practices such as registering Bahamas real estate in employees’ names using company funds, and managers approving disbursements by posting emojis on an internal chat platform.
UPDATE (Nov. 18, 08:39 UTC): Changes description of Alameda's activities in first, third paragraphs."
400,937,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/el-salvadors-president-nayib-bukele-and-trons-justin-sun-to-buy-one-bitcoin-every-day/,El Salvador's President Nayib Bukele and Tron's Justin Sun to Buy One Bitcoin Every Day,"Bukele and Sun commit to buy one BTC every day, starting from Thursday amid fears that crypto exchange FTX's recent collapse would prolong the ongoing crypto winter.",2022-11-17,"Bitcoin-holder El Salvador President Nayib Bukele and Justin Sun, the founder of the Tron cryptocurrency network and Grenada's ambassador, have decided to accumulate bitcoin at a pace of 1 BTC per day.
""We are buying one #Bitcoin every day starting tomorrow,"" Bukele tweeted late Wednesday. Soon after, Sun announced a similar plan, mimicking Bukele's accumulation strategy.
The strategy of purchasing bitcoin on a set schedule instead in reaction to market movements is known as dollar cost averaging (DCA). The advantage of DCA is that it removes the emotional component of decision-making and you end up paying less in dollar terms for the investment over the long run than you would spend while timing the market.
Bukele and Sun's decision to employ the DCA strategy comes as the recent collapse of Sam Bankman Fried's cryptocurrency exchange FTX threatens to prolong the crypto bear market. Analysts are worried that bitcoin could slide to $13,000, having already lost 76% since hitting a record high of $69,000 a year ago.
We echo @nayibbukele’s initiative in buying #Bitcoin daily. We will also buy one #Bitcoin everyday starting tomorrow! @trondaoreserve @trondao https://t.co/cRqfBIPKGR
El Salvador announced bitcoin as legal tender in June last year in hopes that the cryptocurrency would help solve long-standing economic issues. Since then the debt-riddled nation has purchased 2,381 BTC supposedly at an average price of $43,000 .
Sun's Tron DAO Reserve, a community-focused body that supports development on the Tron network, has acquired millions in BTC, Tron's native token TRX and tether (USDT) as collateral backing its dollar-pegged stablecoin USDD. At press time, the collateral backing USDD included 14,040.6 BTC, 240 million USDT, 442,323,460, and 954 million TRX."
401,137,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/17/post-ftx-meltdown-regulation-abiding-companies-can-restore-trust/,"Post-FTX Meltdown, Regulation-Abiding Companies Can Restore Trust","Adhering to stringent guidelines is less flashy, but will ensure safety and reduce risk.",2022-11-17,"Only just a few weeks ago, it seemed like the crypto universe had found a new sense of calm and stability – leave it to Coindesk’s journalists to pop that illusory bubble in dramatic fashion.
We’re now around two weeks out from the report that took down FTX, strongly suggesting that its financial foundation was built on a shell game it played with sister-firm Alameda Research using its FTT Token. That news touched off a series of events that led to FTX’s bankruptcy at the end of last week.
This week, other companies are starting to fall, and it may take a long time for them to stop falling. As we have documented in recent years, Sam Bankman-Fried and FTX were among the most prolific investors in crypto companies on the planet. Beyond Bankman-Fried’s status as a “rescuer” of fallen crypto companies like Voyager Digital, he also was an active venture capital and private equity investor.
You're reading Crypto for Advisors, a weekly look at digital assets and the future of finance for financial advisors. Subscribe here to receive the mailing every Thursday.
Now, all of those investments are coming unwound. Just this week, after news that the FTX rescue of Voyager has been rendered void, Genesis has stopped withdrawals. After halting withdrawals last week, crypto lender BlockFi appears to be preparing for bankruptcy. These firms are just the tip of the iceberg.
Rather than a period of relative stability, the tide is now going even further out in the crypto universe, and a much smaller cohort of firms are going to emerge unscathed.
What’s worse, with a full bankruptcy impacting such a large, complex firm, the fallout will stretch over a very long period of time, said Daniel Shamah, co-head of the bankruptcy litigation group at international law firm O’Melveny.
“Bankruptcy court is a fishbowl,” said Shamah. “Every decision FTX made in recent weeks will be highly scrutinized by a litany of players – committees, potentially an examiner or a trustee, other investors – with a range of tools at their disposal. Expect this to be a long, expensive process that will take years to play out.”
The process is likely to uncover more weakness in the crypto space and perhaps more dominos ready to fall.
Watch: FTX Contagion: Who Are the Winners and Losers in the Ecosystem?
Even worse is the loss of trust in FTX and Bankman-Fried, who were seen by some as reliable and stable entities, if not out-and-out saviors of the crypto space. FTX and its founder were among the most recognizable and outspoken faces in the industry.
What advisors and clients need now from the digital assets space is a trusted partner, someone they can work with. Crypto exchanges will need to diversify their revenue streams to create more stability during crypto downturns, according to Suneet Muru, an analyst on the thematic intelligence team at GlobalData. This demand for more diversification puts pressure on young, technology-driven companies, many of which are still trying to define, develop and scale their businesses.
“FTX’s bankruptcy will be a classic example of ‘short-term pain, long-term gain’. It will deflate the crypto market cap over the next few months, but will force exchanges to realign their business models toward effective risk management. Now more than ever, exchanges must demonstrate how they differ from banks and keep far less of their own cryptocurrencies on their books.”
Not everyone trusted FTX. Digital Asset Research, a provider of institutional data, insights and research for the crypto space, never passed FTX as a “vetted” exchange and never placed it on its own list of trusted actors.
Some of the reasons FTX failed to pass DAR’s muster included opacity, weak KYC/AML controls and its unusual relationship with Alameda research.
LevelField Financial CEO and founder Gene Grant was also wary of FTX long before the CoinDesk report.
“The yellow caution lights were flashing for FTX for some time,” said Grant. “The world loved the story of a brash young man taking on the world, building an empire, and creating a firm from nothing. The problem is that financial services companies are not the same as other companies, and the qualities that make a great leader are those that are less flashy: trustfulness, safety and risk mitigation.”
Read more: These Crypto Market Makers Were Wary of FTX Before Collapse
While much of the world was enthralled by Bankman-Fried's ability to move billions to fund and bailout others in the digital assets space, Grant was concerned with FTX’s origin story, which had its roots in a quasi-illegal arbitrage crypto trade in South Korea, and that Alameda Research was purportedly named under false pretenses to secure bank accounts for the company.
Sam Bankman-Fried surely isn’t the only person in the crypto universe who has built a mostly positive reputation by playing it loose with regulators. While many in the financial services industry scoff at the stringent regulations placed upon them by state, federal and industry agencies, failure to follow those rules should be taken as a huge red flag in and of itself.
A company that plays it fast and loose with regulators may be willing to do the same with investor money."
402,610,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/17/binance-to-relaunch-bid-for-bankrupt-lender-voyager-source/,Binance to Relaunch Bid for Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager: Source,"The previous Voyager sale saw FTX emerge as the “white knight,” beating out Binance.",2022-11-17,"Binance.US, the American arm of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, is preparing to bid for bankrupt lending platform Voyager Digital, according to a person familiar with the plans.
A previous auction, which was completed around the end of last September, saw the now defunct FTX emerging as the “white knight,” winning out against rivals Wave Financial and Binance. At the time, CoinDesk had also reported that Binance's bid for the U.S.-based Voyager had been shut out due to national security concerns.
Following FTX’s announcement last week to file for bankruptcy, Voyager said it had reopened the bidding process for the company, and is in active discussions with alternative bidders. Wave Financial and trading platform Cross Tower are reported to be in the running.
Voyager did not return requests for comment by press time.
Voyager's native token VGX jumped as much as 50% after CoinDesk's report was published, at the time of writing VGX was up over 40% at $0.4066.
Thomas Braziel, managing partner at investment firm 507 Capital said matters are complicated by the fact Voyager is going to have a claim against the FTX estate for breach of contract.
“The problem is that the claim is only going to be against FTX US,” said Braziel in an interview. “I worry a lot of the collateral is going to be held in trust. So any cause of action they have could end up being behind all the customers. And the problem is that if customers aren’t going to be made whole, then what’s your unsecured claim going to be worth? It’s going to be worth bupkis.”
Earlier this week, Binance CEO Changpeng “CZ” Zhao said his exchange is setting up an industry recovery fund to help rebuild the industry.
“Binance is not looking to be the ‘white knight’ of crypto,” said Binance chief communications officer Patrick Hillmann in a message to CoinDesk. “There are no Luke Skywalkers or Darth Vaders in business. This is a company, with the most to lose as it's market leader, looking around to see where we can help bolster the industry through a black swan event.”
Read more: Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager Reopens Bidding Process Following FTX’s Collapse
UPDATE (Nov. 17, 08:43 UTC): Adds VGX token movement."
403,615,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/ether-staking-yields-jump-up-to-25-all-time-high-since-merge/,Ether Staking Yields Jump Up to 25%; All-Time High Since Merge,"Just staking ether on Lido is paying out 10% annualized, while a more elaborate move bumps yield to as much as 25%.",2022-11-17,"Staking vanilla ether (ETH) is generating eye-catching yields for crypto hopefuls amid a broader market crisis with returns on most fixed-income crypto products dropping as low as 0%.
Operations at centralized crypto lending companies such as Genesis and Circle were caught in the contagion risks stemming from the downfall of crypto exchange FTX in the past few weeks. Withdrawals have been paused at Genesis, while yields on clients’ stablecoin deposits at Circle have dropped to 0%.
The decentralized finance (DeFi) market is muscling on. Users simply staking staked ether (stETH) at staking service Lido are earning as much as 10.7% – an all-time high since the Merge event – with even higher returns for holders as the value of stETH increases.
stETH is a token representing an equivalent amount of ether that has been staked. Staked tokens are locked up for an extended period to provide liquidity for staked ether.
“Recently, the liquid staking protocol also had to increase rebasing oracle limits from 10% to 17.5% to let the increased rewards flow to stETH token holders,” analysts at Delphi Digital said in a Friday note. Rebasing, or elastic, tokens are cryptocurrencies that automatically adjust supply levels to maintain a constant value.
The increased rewards have led to related borrowing strategies offering yields of as much as 25.5% on the Interest Compounding ether product (icETH) offered by Index Coop.
As a result of the increased rewards, the yield earned by recursive borrowing strategies such as icETH has also reached an all-time high of 25.5% since the Merge. It stands at 24.05% at writing time.
The Interest Compounding ETH Index (icETH) enhances staking returns with a leveraged staking strategy. The strategy uses a user’s stETH tokens as collateral on DeFi lending service Aave to borrow wrapped ether (WETH) – a token that tracks ether – that is in turn used to purchase additional stETH tokens.
This effectively leverages the amount of collateral supplied to Aave and uses that to increase yield for traders.
Data shows some $21 million worth of icETH tokens are currently on the market, with $12 million put to use on Aave to generate additional yields for holders.
However, there are some caveats to these high yields.
“Apart from smart contract risk, investors in icETH need to consider the liquidation risk from borrowing ETH from Aave and interest rate risk from the spread between borrowing cost and staking return,” Delphi analysts said."
404,482,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/voyager-token-jumps-15-as-binance-plans-to-offer-lifeline-to-bankrupt-crypto-lender/,Voyager Token Surges on Report Binance to Offer Lifeline to the Bankrupt Crypto Lender,"Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July, citing more than 100,000 creditors and as much as $10 billion in assets and liabilities.",2022-11-17,"Voyager Digital's native coin, voyager (VGX), surged Thursday after CoinDesk reported that leading digital assets exchange Binance's U.S. arm is relaunching a bid to purchase the bankrupt crypto lending platform.
VGX jumped more than 55% to $0.45, the highest level since Oct. 21, according to CoinDesk data.
The token is still down 85% this year.
Voyager ended a deal to be bought by FTX, agreed in September, after the Sam Bankman-Fried-led crypto exchange collapsed last week.
FTX beat out Binance and Wave Financial with a bid valued about $1.4 billion.
Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in early July, citing more than 100,000 creditors and between $1 billion and $10 billion in assets and liabilities.
Many crypto lenders, which had doled out large loans to the now-defunct hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, have suspended withdrawals and filed for bankruptcy in the past four months.
UPDATE (Nov. 17. 09:44 UTC): Adds chart, value of FTX offer."
405,254,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/17/ftx-exploiter-swaps-thousands-of-stolen-bnb-crypto-tokens-into-ether-busd/,"FTX Exploiter Swaps Thousands of Stolen BNB Crypto Tokens Into Ether, BUSD",The attacker appears to convert the illicitly gained funds around the same time every day.,2022-11-17,"Whoever was behind last week’s $600 million exploit of crypto exchange FTX converted over about $7.4 million worth of BNB tokens into ether (ETH) and binance USD (BUSD), a U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin, on Thursday.
Some 10,000 BNB tokens were converted into 2,000 ether, worth over $2.4 million at current rates, and a total of 19,714 BNB became $5 million of BUSD over two transactions. The BNB and BUSD tokens form the backbone of BNB Chain, a blockchain network closely related to the crypto exchange Binance.
It is not clear why the attacker is swapping the stolen funds and choosing to convert them to ether and BUSD specifically. No one has claimed responsibility for the attack.
The attacker, who carried the first conversion on Tuesday, seems to carry out the conversions at roughly the same time of day. The transactions on Tuesday and Wednesday occurred between 09:00 UTC and 11:00 UTC, as did today's.
#PeckShieldAlert FTX Accounts Drainer has swapped 10,000 $BNB ($2,682,185.99) on BSC to 2,001.5 $ETH ($2,400,603.74) pic.twitter.com/tHPgWKhXf2
The funds were siphoned from FTX's crypto wallets late Friday last week. Soon after, the exchange said on its official Telegram channel that it had been compromised, instructing users not to install any new upgrades and to delete all FTX apps.
Multiple addresses connected to the accounts drainer started moving funds on Tuesday, swapping it to over 34,000 ether. The address now holds more than 290,000 ether and is currently the 34th-largest owner of the cryptocurrency."
406,222,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-sinks-amid-cryptos-latest-debacle/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Sinks Amid Crypto's Latest Debacle,"ALSO: Shaurya Malwa considers the widening fallout from FTX, now including Genesis Global Capital's decision to pause withdrawals. Could TradFi be swept up next in the crisis?",2022-11-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos sank after the lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading suspended customer withdrawals.
Insights: The fallout from FTX's collapse continues to widen. What's likely to happen next in the industry?
Bitcoin Sinks Amid Crypto's Latest Debacle
By James Rubin
Et tu, Genesis Global Capital?
Crypto's latest stab in the back came Wednesday morning as the lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading temporarily suspended redemptions and new loan originations, adding to the rapidly widening fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s collapse.
This article was adapted from Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Crypto markets recoiled with most major cryptocurrencies spending much of the day in the red.
Bitcoin was recently trading just below $16,700, down 1.4% over the past 24 hours as Bitcoin investors resumed their defensive posture of the past week. Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,200, a 3.7% decline. Other major altcoins were largely in the red with CEL and UNI both off more than 5%. FTX’s FTT token declined nearly 4% and was trading at just $1.66, far removed from its high near $36 earlier in the year.
Genesis Interim CEO Derar Islim told customers on a call that Genesis is exploring solutions for the lending unit, including finding a source of fresh liquidity. He said Genesis intends to detail its plan to clients next week. Genesis Global Capital serves an institutional client base and had $2.8 billion in total active loans as of the end of the third quarter of 2022, according to the company’s website. Genesis owner Digital Currency Group (DCG) is also the parent company of CoinDesk. ""Today Genesis Global Capital, Genesis's lending business, made the difficult decision to temporarily suspend redemptions and new loan originations. This decision was made in response to the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion,"" said Amanda Cowie, vice president of communications and marketing at DCG.
Equity markets continued to pay scant attention to crypto's ongoing travails. The tech heavy Nasdaq jumped more than a percentage point, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) dropped slightly.
Genesis’ announcement is the latest entanglement to FTX’s liquidity crisis and subsequent filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last week. The industry is already reeling from multiple debacles earlier this year, including the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the LUNA token that backs it.
In an email to CoinDesk, Gene Hoffman, president and COO of energy efficient blockchain Chia Network, noted in an email to CoinDesk that Genesis Global Capital is suffering from ""the type of problem (that) blockchains are built to solve.""
""The Wall Street paradigms and behaviors applied to the emerging technology are what keep blowing up, and will continue to blow up,"" Hoffman wrote. ""Cryptocurrency doesn’t add anything to lending, and yet we’ve seen actors in the space extending themselves and cranking up their leverage with dubious assets and no oversight.
He added: The industry has to move beyond the “crypto bro” schemes and rugpulls. Crypto and blockchain are not an “asset class” but are a set of rivalrous technologies and we should approach cryptocurrency and blockchain responsibly.""
FTX Fallout Widens. What's Next for the Crypto Industry?
By Shaurya Malwa
Crypto markets have a way of ignoring time.
Some weeks pass with markets and technical developments moving slower than a snail’s leisurely walk.
Then there are days that pack months – or arguably years’ – worth of action into a few hours. The recent collapse of crypto exchange FTX and spreading fallout belongs to the latter category. In a few days, one of crypto’s flagship enterprises has evaporated, and contagion has gripped markets swept up in new doubts about the industry’s stability.
Crypto funds and projects have lost hundreds of millions of dollars custodied on exchanges and lending companies have ceased certain operations, most recently the lending arm of crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading, which suspended withdrawals on Wednesday. Genesis Global Capital had $2.8 billion in active loans in its recently completed third quarter, as CoinDesk reported.
Genesis Global Trading CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of the same parent firm, Digital Currency Group (DCG).
In a call early Wednesday, Interim CEO Derar Islim told customers that the company’s issues related to FTX’s collapse.
Islim said that Genesis is exploring solutions for the lending unit, including finding a source of fresh liquidity. He added Genesis intends to detail its plan to clients next week. The story now sounds like a refrain of the crypto industry’s myriad tragedies of recent months. Terraform Labs, Celsius and Three Arrows Capital all offered some vague hope of making good to customers, even as their paper walls were crumpling. What hope has Genesis Global Capital?
Last week, Genesis disclosed that its derivatives unit had about $175 million in locked funds in its FTX trading account. As a result, DCG opted to strengthen Genesis’ balance sheet with an equity infusion of $140 million.
The announcement was noted by Gemini, the crypto exchange and custodian that has a partnership with Genesis.
""We are working with the Genesis team to help customers redeem their funds from the Earn program as quickly as possible,"" Gemini said in a statement, adding that it was “encouraged by Genesis’ and its parent company Digital Currency Group’s commitment to doing everything in their power to fulfill their obligations to customers under the Earn program.""
To be sure, Genesis has not declared solvency issues. The client call implied Genesis was currently illiquid due to market conditions but not insolvent, which would mean it was unable to pay debts owed.
Scant comfort.
Market affect?
Scores of market participants on Crypto Twitter floated theories of how Genesis’ problems would affect the market – ranging from the impact on DCG-owned investment firm Grayscale’s bitcoin and ether products to on-chain sleuths signaling trouble at crypto exchange Gemini, citing on-chain data.
Some opine the search for liquidity to help Genesis may see it unwind part of its GBTC holdings, a Grayscale product that tracks bitcoin, causing prices of bitcoin to plummet to as low as $8,000.
Genesis is a big player in crypto that a year ago, in what now seems the long-ago, pre-bear market past, had over $50 billion in loan originations and $12.5 billion in active loans. It traded over $31 billion in spot volume and over $21 billion in derivatives volumes. Those volumes fell last quarter, however, because of troubles at Three Arrows Capital, another once-high-flying crypto fund.
Traditional finance market participants liken the ongoing crisis to historic macro events, such as Long Term Capital Management’s (LTCM) billion-dollar implosion in the early 90s and Lehman Brothers’ fall from grace in 2008.
Some of these institutions may soon be caught up in the current mess. The next chapters in this ongoing, unsavory saga are difficult to predict, although the chances are likely that conditions will worsen before they improve.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(0:30 UTC) Australia Employment Change s.a. (Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Initial Jobless Claims (Nov 11)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:30 UTC) Japan National Consumer Price Index (YoY/Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Fallout: Genesis' Crypto Lending Unit Halts Withdrawals, Legal Ramifications for Sam Bankman-Fried
As the ripple effects from the FTX collapse weigh on the industry, ""First Mover"" covered the latest developments, including the impact on BlockFi, CoinDesk sister company Genesis and Sam Bankman-Fried himself as FTX prepares for bankruptcy proceedings. Lisa Bragança, former SEC enforcement branch chief, Arca CIO Jeff Dorman and Oppenheimer Senior Analyst Owen Lau joined ""First Mover"" to discuss.
4 Key Takeaways from the FTX Fiasco: The real reason why the FTX failure hits so hard is not because the crypto industry was duped, but because it proved that the industry was vulnerable to being duped.
DeFi Giant MakerDAO Speeds Up DAI Transactions and Withdrawals, Expands to Arbitrum, Osmosis: MakerDAO’s new technology, Maker Teleport, enables users of the DAI stablecoin to circumvent Ethereum’s congested base layer.
StarkWare Deploys StarkNet Crypto Token on Ethereum Blockchain: The tokens are not yet available for sale.
Matter Labs Nets $200M to Build zkSync Ethereum Scaling Platform: A week after zkSync V2’s “baby alpha” launch, Matter Labs said it would open-source its code and push for improved standards around rollup development.
Grayscale Declares 'Business as Usual' Despite Sister Company Genesis Global Capital Suspending Withdrawals: Grayscale said that ""Genesis Global Capital is not a counterparty or service provider for any Grayscale product."""
407,471,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/17/4-key-takeaways-from-the-ftx-fiasco/,4 Key Takeaways from the FTX Fiasco,"The real reason why the FTX failure hits so hard is not because the crypto industry was duped, but because it proved that the industry was vulnerable to being duped.",2022-11-17,"Depending upon whom you ask, last week’s FTX blowup feels bigger than when Mt. Gox, the original Bitcoin exchange, fell to ruin in 2014. Bigger than The DAO hack of 2016, which forced Ethereum to fork into two chains as a way to recover user funds. Bigger, too, than the implosion of Terra, the crypto stablecoin operator that went bust this past spring and brought down firms like Voyager, Celsius, and 3AC in its wake.
FTX’s financial impact was smaller than some of the events. So why does it feel existential?
Maybe it’s because crypto is already in the midst of a brutal bear market, making yet another blow feel heavier than it would have at the market’s peak.
This article originally appeared in Valid Points, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter breaking down Ethereum’s evolution and its impact on crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
Perhaps it’s because the key person behind the failure, FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, was until a week ago considered crypto’s white knight, trusted by sophisticated investors and institutions as one of the most responsible actors in the space.
But, in this writer’s opinion, the real reason why FTX was such a colossal failure is not because the crypto industry was duped, but because it proved that the industry was vulnerable to being duped.
This distinction, while seemingly minor, strikes at the core of what crypto is supposed to be – a foundation to build systems that are trustless. The FTX blowup and contagion are proving, yet again, that the crypto industry, if not its core technology, is currently as trust-based and corruptible as the traditional financial system that it sought to circumvent.
We need to do a better job of differentiating between Crypto and the Crypto Industry.
Capital-’C’ Crypto will not be killed by FTX. The core technology undergirding platforms like Ethereum and Bitcoin are still working as advertised. FTX and its sister company Alameda Research used blockchains and cryptocurrency, but they were old-fashioned companies killed by old-fashioned fraud.
As for the Crypto Industry, FTX will prove cataclysmic. We can talk all we want about the sanctity of “decentralized” and “trustless” technology, but so much of the attention and money that has poured into the space over the past several years has gone toward companies like FTX, BlockFi, Celsius and Voyager – unregulated, token-based extensions of traditional finance.
Sure, we always knew that these weren’t really Crypto companies, but investors, influencers and users let that distinction slide. We let these companies use their venture-backed liquidity reserves to pump up tokens and entice retail investors with promises of sky-high yields.
As these companies die, so too should the insane valuations, free-money schemes and money-printing accounting practices that have come to typify the Crypto Industry.
Decentralized finance (DeFi) – tools built on blockchains that allow people to trade and transact without centralized intermediaries – are pitched as a direct antidote to frauds like the one that seems to have been perpetrated by FTX.
As fear continues to spread around the solvency of centralized platforms like Crypto.com, decentralized platforms like Aave and Uniswap claim to be structurally incapable of misappropriating user funds.
These platforms, which require users to trust code rather than central parties, have generally proven resilient amidst the FTX turmoil.
As my former CoinDesk colleague Andrew Thurman noted on Twitter, DeFi platforms have seen big boosts in activity over the past week as their centralized counterparts have been experiencing record withdraws:
Most DeFi protocols are up double digits in users and transactions this week; centralized exchanges have huge outflows

""Crypto"" as measured by onchain activity is doing great despite FTX fraud

From a PR angle I know nobody cares abt nuance right now, but it's not complicated https://t.co/17o8toibE9 pic.twitter.com/OUkLJKgfz0
DeFi is just a tool. While it carries certain intrinsic advantages relative to other tools (e.g. transparency), it can be used for good or for ill.
DeFi did not fall apart as a result of FTX, but this week reminded us that incumbent DeFi ecosystems are not immune to rot from the wider, oligarchical crypto ecosystem.
As CoinDesk reported earlier this week, Solana’s DeFi ecosystem, already struggling amid the market downturn of the past few months, was crushed by the failure of FTX.
This failure stemmed largely from the SBF-empire’s massive stake in the Solana ecosystem – not only in terms of its token holdings, but in terms of the role that FTX developers played in building out the projects at the core of the network’s DeFi ecosystem. For example, CoinDesk reported last week on Serum – a leading Solana DeFi platform that was built and maintained by FTX engineers.
Though FTX couldn’t easily steal Serum funds, governance rights on the platform were basically controlled by SBF’s own developers, and the “Serum DAO” that was supposed to govern the protocol was virtually toothless when it came to making changes.
Moreover, FTX and Alameda’s outsized stake in certain low-market-cap tokens granted it the theoretical ability to manipulate markets.
The FTX-Solana contagion is not the only recent example of DeFi’s corruptibility. Terra, which was ostensibly decentralized, has been accused of using venture money to rope in retail investors to fuel its $60 billion blowup.
Even more credibly decentralized platforms, like Uniswap, have faced scrutiny this week. The venture firm Andressen Horowitz and centralized exchange Binance have amassed a large amount of governance power within the leading decentralized exchange’s governance system.
Though you may not agree with his full take, Ben Thompson encapsulated one skeptical viewpoint on DeFi in this week’s edition of his stellar Stratechery newsletter:
“The FTX case is not, technically speaking, about cryptocurrency utility; it is a pretty straightforward case of fraud. Moreover, it was [...] a problem of centralization, as opposed to true DeFi. Such disclaimers do, though, have a whiff of ‘communism just hasn’t been done properly': I already made the case that centralization is an inevitability at scale, and in terms of utility, that’s the entire problem. An entire financial ecosystem with a void in terms of underlying assets may not be fraud in a legal sense, but it sure seems fraudulent in terms of intrinsic value.”
Before his spectacular fall from grace last week, SBF was a kind of crypto golden boy. Dubbed the JP Morgan of Crypto, SBF recently began facing criticism in some corners of Crypto Twitter for his pro-regulation stances (which seem more cynical in retrospect), but in general, when he spoke, people listened.
Despite long-standing questions around Alameda’s relationship with FTX, savvy investors trusted SBF, poured billions into his custody and promoted his platform to retail investors.
The lionization of SBF in the mainstream press, crypto press and Crypto Twitter is undoubtedly a big reason why the FTX collapse was so painful. But now that SBF is public enemy number one, Twitter has been filled with a wave of self-righteous critics.
Among the most vocal SBF critics over the past week have been recent industry villains like Terra creator Do Kwon and Three Arrows Capital (3AC) founders Su Zhu and Kyle Davies. After months of relative quiet, the trio have used the negative attention on SBF to mount their own comebacks – hoping, apparently, that attacking the FTX founder along with everyone else will help them rebuild their own sullied reputations.
It’s doubtful that any of these folks will succeed. However, the re-emergence of these characters – along with waves of sycophantic tweets in support of Binance’s Changpeng Zhao and Tron’s Justin Sun – should reminded us of the toxic role that hero worship has played, and continues to play in the “trustless” world of cryptocurrency."
408,787,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/18/cryptos-very-human-fatal-flaw-hero-worship/,Crypto’s Very Human Fatal Flaw: Hero Worship,"Misplaced admiration of Sam Bankman-Fried, prior to the FTX collapse, was a natural tendency. To move forward, we must recognize this vulnerability and safeguard with appropriate regulation.",2022-11-18,"As the crypto community grapples with what led to this, its biggest-ever crisis, a look at Shakespeare and his various king characters is useful.
Most of the bard’s monarchs are either megalomaniacal villains (Richard III, Claudius), dupes (Macbeth) or madmen (Lear). All of them are seduced by power, consumed by paranoia and fail to distinguish their self-interest from that of their subjects.
There are no allegations that Sam Bankman-Fried poisoned anyone or plotted against his next of kin. But there is now jaw-dropping evidence that, closeted in an island compound with a small cabal of insiders, the erstwhile CEO of FTX wielded power in an erratic, unchecked and highly destructive manner. All this while he cultivated, promoted and largely succeeded in embedding in popular consciousness the glossy image of a wise and benevolent leader.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
This wasn’t supposed to be the crypto way. Most FTX customers likely believed their investments in decentralized protocols supported systems that could free people, and their economic activity, from the need to trust a corruptible centralized authority. (Whether they understood the idea enough to discern which few tokens truly held such promise is a very different matter.)
Yet, there are fewer modern communities that have been so undermined by the investment of excessive trust in a leader figure. Its root cause is the age-old human habit of hero worship.
Crypto fanatics put this young, quirky leader on a pedestal, gave him the keys (literally) to the kingdom and allowed him to completely corrupt the authority they’d granted him. (Read the gob-smacking bankruptcy filing of SBF’s replacement CEO, John J. Ray III on the “unprecedented” accounting and business practices at FTX: a complete “failure of corporate controls,” an “absence of trustworthy financial information,” “compromised systems integrity,” and the “concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals.”)
And while SBF’s FTX takes the cake for crypto’s biggest con in dollar terms, it’s noteworthy how many other conmen crypto has produced: Mt. Gox’s Mark Karpeles, QuadrigaX’s Gerald Cotton, OneCoin’s Ruja Ignatova. The list goes on.
How could a community so obsessed with decentralized systems fall so frequently for the one thing it professes to resist? I’d say it’s a combination of interrelated, deeply human factors. Recognizing and understanding them is vital if the crypto community is to adopt a model of uber-governance that protects its members from being duped by such cons.
Hero worship is universal. It’s primal. It starts with alpha apes and tribal leaders and leads to our historical obsession with wartime leaders like Lincoln or Churchill, with celebrity CEOs like Warren Buffett or Jack Welch, or with sport coaches like Bill Belichick or Vince Lombardi. There is something deep-seated and innate in this most social of instincts. All groups are fearful of survival and look to leadership to set direction and protect them from such challenges.
So, if hero worship is innate and universal, anyone who advocates for a decentralized system to protect against its failings must also recognize that the same instinct lies within their own mind.
Look at the subculture of Bitcoin since its early days and at its all-defining origin story: that its code was created by a single, brilliant man who selflessly bequeathed it to the world and kept his own name and potential for fame out of it. There have been songs about Satoshi Nakamoto, and poems, and artwork and a hagiographic volume of his “collected writings” (IRC posts).
Read more: Who Is Satoshi Nakamoto?
There’s nothing wrong, per se, with any of this. As I said, it’s a natural state of mind. In fact, it’s hard to imagine the crypto community – itself so important to the formation of an ecosystem of money and value exchange – cohesively forming without these kinds of myths and objects of reverence.
What’s a problem is the denial that it exists, the idea that I’m not vulnerable to this kind of misplaced admiration because I’m a believer in math, not humans.
This failure to see one’s own limitations is made doubly worse if you also have misplaced confidence in your safety because the system in which you believe you operate is supposed to be decentralized.
Security experts frequently observe that the systems most vulnerable to attack are those where actors have excessive faith in that system’s invulnerability. A false sense of security creates an ideal environment for an intruder.
The same goes for corruption. If there is outsized, unfounded trust in the incorruptibility of an ultimately flawed system, rogue actors can more easily abuse people.
How many of FTX’s customers mistakenly believed their investments were secure because the tokens they’d bought were associated with some decentralized blockchain, without realizing that those blockchain systems sat a few degrees of separation from the centralized, compromised entity acting as their intermediary?
The third piece of the puzzle is the lack of regulation, which opens a path to fixing this mess.
The absence of regulations curtailing the purse-string-controlling power of entities such as FTX tends to amplify the risks generated by these illusions of invulnerability.
Even if they intuitively understand how fractional reserve banking operates, people tend to think about their money in a bank account as being literally their dollars. The same goes for the amounts expressed in a third-party hosted crypto wallet. In both cases, the premise is false because customers’ funds and assets are commingled, not segregated; banks and centralized exchanges are debtors to their customers, not one-for-one custodians.
At least with a bank, the customer is protected by federal deposit insurance under regulatory requirements. A depositor with an under-regulated crypto exchange is really just an unsecured creditor with no recourse if the entity has used those collective assets to invest in outside projects whose value has evaporated. What makes them vulnerable to exploitation, then, is that they live under the illusion that their money is protected when it is not.
Watch: Bahamas Securities Regulator Says It Ordered FTX Crypto Transferred to Government Wallets
Does this mean the solution lies in tougher, globally universal regulations that compel centralized exchanges to ring-fence and protect their customers’ funds and for their controlling entities to be subject to strict audits? Maybe. But my point is not that governments are necessarily the answer but that some form of governance – be that a national regulator or an industry-wide self-regulatory system – is required to force the likes of FTX to protect their users.
Here we can take lessons from another king of history: England’s George III, the monarch who lost the American colonies and who then proceeded to go stark raving mad. The United States’ founders saw the human fallibility problem so clearly that, after some trial and error, they created a system to guard against it. The U.S. constitution, with its “checks and balances,” is one of the great decentralizing protocols of history.
The challenge then, for crypto, is not to figure out the best governance practices for each Layer 1 blockchain protocol, but to find the right framework of overarching governance for all the other human-led members of the surrounding ecosystem: the exchanges, the market-makers, the trading desks, the custodians, the wallet providers and so forth. Should it all be the government’s responsibility? Or is there a self-regulatory, industry-wide solution?
Whatever the fix, its protections should be founded on the famous maxim from Lord Acton upon which any functioning democracy is founded: “power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely.”"
409,79,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/18/decentraland-dao-considers-pausing-grants-as-ftx-collapse-spotlights-diversification/,Decentraland DAO Considers Pausing Grants as FTX Collapse Spotlights Diversification,"The metaverse platform’s DAO community treasury holds over 99% of its assets in MANA, Decentraland’s native cryptocurrency.",2022-11-18,"The Decentraland DAO – the metaverse platform’s community decision-making tool – is holding a vote on whether to temporarily pause its grants program and reassess its structure.
The proposal, brought to a vote on Wednesday, cites concerns over the diversity of its treasury holdings as well as a lack of clear guidelines for grants. Through the program, any community member can request funding for efforts to improve the platform or implement new features.
“The grants program has shown to be a key aspect and fantastic addition to Decentraland; however, the time might be right to pause and review its current structure, identifying valuable lessons from its shortcomings,” the proposal states.
Specifically, the proposal notes that its DAO treasury holds funds equal to $19.3 million, with 99.1% of those assets held in MANA, Decentraland’s native cryptocurrency, and only 0.9% held in “other” tokens.
In presenting that information, the proposal references failed cryptocurrency exchange FTX and the risks it took before declaring bankruptcy. Last week, CoinDesk revealed that FTX’s sister company, Alameda, held billions of dollars of FTT – the platform’s exchange token – on its balance sheet, which hinted at an unusually close relationship between the two companies and raised questions about its shaky foundations.
“One of the largest lessons we can learn from FTX’s collapse is that overexposing one’s treasuries and assets to a single type of asset as your primary source of funding and liquidity, is a major risk,” the proposal says.
MANA currently trades at $0.41 cents, after losing about 34% of its value in the past month. The proposal states that further grants could put increased sell pressure on the token.
Thus far, the grants program has invested $7.5 million in metaverse initiatives and has funded 124 grants, according to the DAO’s treasury website. The pause would allow the DAO to diversify its treasury, reevaluate the current grants model and work on building a roadmap.
“FTX has shown our entire industry that accountability, diversification, transparency and prudent and active risk management protocols are an absolute necessity that shouldn’t be ignored,” Sean Ellul, co-founder of Web3 architecture firm Metaverse Architects and co-author of the proposal, told CoinDesk.
The DAO set out a plan in February 2020 to slowly increase its treasury by vesting 222 million MANA tokens over the course of 10 years. Thus far, the DAO has vested about 61 million tokens.
The poll closes Monday, and so far, 62% of voters are in favor of the pause."
410,272,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/18/sports-fan-tokens-rally-ahead-of-fifa-world-cup-defying-crypto-market-gloom/,"Sports Fan Tokens Rally Ahead of FIFA World Cup, Defying Crypto Market Gloom","Socios.com’s CHZ jumped 11% in a day, while fan tokens of national soccer teams of Portugal and Argentina are up 50% and 28%, respectively, amid mounting anticipation for the soccer World Cup.",2022-11-18,"Through the doom and gloom of FTX-stricken crypto markets, sports fan tokens are basking in a fresh wave of hype ahead of the FIFA World Cup 2022, which starts Sunday.
The native token of the Chiliz blockchain (CHZ), which powers the largest sports fan token creator platform Socios.com, has surged 11% in the past 24 hours.
Fan tokens for the national soccer teams of Portugal (POR) and Argentina (ARG), both major contenders to win the Cup, “will be the cherries on top during the World Cup,” the research team of crypto exchange Huobi wrote in a report Thursday.
POR has rallied 15% over the past 24 hours and is up 50% during the previous week, while ARG has pocketed a 10% daily and 28% weekly gain, according to FanMarketCap, a fan token price tracker.
The total market capitalization of fan tokens increased 11% in the last 24 hours to $399 million, data by CoinGecko shows.
Fan tokens are cryptocurrencies that represent membership to a community, for example a sports team’s fan base. Token holders can express their support to a team, while they receive specific perks, including game tickets or even some level of participation in a sports club’s decision-making.
The rally precedes the kickoff of soccer’s most important event, the quadrennial World Cup on Sunday in Qatar. The event will conclude Dec. 18 with the crowning of a world champion from a field of 32 national teams, including soccer powerhouses Brazil, Belgium and Germany.
Read more: Web3 Is Heading to the World Cup
Sports fan tokens are outperforming the broader crypto market, which is reeling from the bankruptcy protection filing of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, including FTX and high-profile trading firm Alameda. FTX has been deeply embedded in the sports world, buying naming rights of stadiums and securing sponsorship deals.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which tracks the price of a weighted basket of 168 cryptocurrencies, has traded flat in the past 24 hours and is down 2% through the week.
The fan token asset class may lose steam after the World Cup 2022, resulting in lower prices and trading volumes as the hype dies down, according to Huobi’s report.
Read more: Binance Puts Ronaldo NFTs in Spotlight With First-Ever Global Ad Campaign"
411,782,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/18/binance-puts-ronaldo-nfts-in-spotlight-with-first-ever-global-ad-campaign/,Binance Puts Ronaldo NFTs in Spotlight With First-Ever Global Ad Campaign,"The famous footballer's inaugural NFT collection launched on Friday, with Binance calling out ""bad players.""",2022-11-18,"Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume, has launched a global marketing campaign with Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo in honor of his inaugural non-fungible token (NFT) launch.
The NFT collection, named the CR7 NFT Collection, is the first in a series of drops heralding Ronaldo's legacy. The NFTs, which launched exclusively on Binance's NFT marketplace on Friday, feature seven animated figures depicting iconic moments from his career, organized into four rarity levels. The auction for the 45 highest-value NFTs will be available for auction for 24 hours, with bidding prices for the rarest five NFTs starting at 10,000 BUSD. (BUSD is a U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin.)
The NFT tiers come with exclusive perks such as a personal message from Ronaldo, autographed merchandise, guaranteed access for future drops and free ""mystery boxes"" for new signups.
The 60-second spot is running across TV, digital and social channels across 74 countries and 28 languages, Ad Age said. The move comes as cryptocurrency exchange FTX, a crypto exchange competitor to Binance, filed for bankruptcy last week after facing insolvency issues. Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, who had a well-documented rivalry with former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, briefly considered stepping in to save FTX but ultimately scrapped the deal.
While Binance did not directly address the situation with FTX, it offered a veiled barb at the failed exchange. ""There are bad players in our industry, but it’s important to know that there are also creators and innovators, who are working hard to build valuable products and services in Web3,"" He Yi, co-founder and chief marketing officer of Binance, told Ad Age."
412,1087,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/18/bofa-dont-tarnish-blockchain-technology-with-speculative-crypto-trading/,BofA: Don’t Tarnish Blockchain Technology With Speculative Crypto Trading,"The development of applications leveraging distributed ledger and blockchain technology continues to advance, the bank's report said.",2022-11-18,"It is important to separate speculative crypto trading and token prices from the underlying blockchain technology, Bank of America (BAC) said in a research report Thursday after a group of major banks and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York started testing the use of digital tokens representing dollars.
Citigroup (C), HSBC (HSBC), BNY Mellon (BK) and Wells Fargo (WFC) are among those taking part, as is payments giant Mastercard (MA), the New York Fed said on Tuesday.
Despite the backlash following the collapse of crypto exchange FTX and its sister company Alameda Research, “the development of applications that leverage distributed ledger and blockchain technology continues to advance,” analysts Alkesh Shah and Andrew Moss wrote.
The benefits of a wholesale central bank digital currency (CBDC) include faster settlement time, which could allow financial institutions to reallocate funds that had been otherwise held as collateral into yield-bearing investments, the bank said. Other positives include reduced costs, lower credit risk and increased transparency.
Bank of America says a wholesale CBDC may be issued before a retail CBDC “due to less complexity related to design, privacy and banking system disintermediation.”
Central banks and governments are expected to drive digital asset innovation by leveraging the private sector, the note said, and this will create new revenue streams. Governments may give contracts to payments and consulting firms for their expertise, but the larger revenue opportunity likely exists for “infrastructure providers that offer distributed ledger platforms, cloud storage, cybersecurity, digital asset custody/wallets and telecom for offline access.”
Potential beneficiaries will depend on what type of CBDC implementation approach is used, according to the report.
Read more: David Chaum Rolls Out Privacy-Protecting CBDC Technology"
413,152,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/18/a-complete-failure-of-corporate-controls-what-investors-and-accountants-missed-in-ftxs-audits/,'A Complete Failure of Corporate Controls': What Investors and Accountants Missed in FTX’s Audits,Subtitle not found,2022-11-18,"On Nov. 2, CoinDesk’s Ian Allison lit the match that set the FTX empire built by quixotic founder Sam Bankman-Fried on fire.
Looking at financial reports dated June 30, Allison noted that FTX proprietary trading arm Alameda Research had $14.6 billion in assets on its balance sheet but that its single biggest asset was $3.66 billion of “unlocked FTT” and the third-largest “asset” was $2.16 billion more of “FTT collateral.”
Nearly 40% of Alameda’s assets consisted of FTT, a coin that Bankman-Fried himself more or less invented. It wasn’t an independently traded stablecoin or token with some volume and a market price or actual fiat in a reputable bank.
Francine McKenna is a lecturer in financial accounting at The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Her 15-plus years of journalism experience includes roles at MarketWatch/WSJ, Forbes and American Banker. She currently produces a newsletter, The Dig, about public and pre-IPO companies.
Allison wrote that the situation suggested that ties between FTX and Alameda were unusually close. The story led to a Twitter war between Bankman-Fried and his former mentor Changpeng Zhao, who leads Binance, a rival exchange, and then a call for help from Bankman-Fried to Zhao that ended in a failed bailout. FTX and its 160-plus business units all filed for bankruptcy in Delaware nine days after the CoinDesk story that started the conflagration.
CoinDesk obtained the audited financial statements of West Realm Shires, also known as FTX US, and FTX Trading Ltd., the combined offshore Bahamas-based entity that includes an exchange catering to non-U.S. customers and Alameda, the proprietary trading operation.
It’s not clear why FTX commissioned two different audit firms to audit its 2020 and 2021 financial statements. The reports by Armanino LLP, which signed the report for the U.S. operation, and by Prager Metis LLP, which signed the opinion for the offshore operations, were issued at the end of March 2022.
Read more: David Z. Morris - 8 Days in November: What Led to FTX’s Sudden Collapse
Did some investors tighten their due diligence process after the Theranos debacle and insist on seeing information that had been vetted by CPAs? Or was FTX taking the first steps toward an initial public offering?
This month's blowup of Bankman-Fried's empire was like a meteor striking the crypto world, and the shock waves are still upending the industry. But if you knew where to look in the audited financial statements, there were signs that it was coming.
The first red flag anyone receiving these reports should have seen is that there were two different audit firms producing them. Why hire two different firms rather than one to produce an opinion on consolidated results? With the benefit of hindsight, we can see it perhaps suggested that Bankman-Fried didn’t want any firm to see the whole picture.
The choice of firms itself is questionable. These are two small outfits, not even on the next tier to the Big Four global audit firms – Deloitte, Ernst &Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Armanino and Prager Metis do audit a few public companies but none of the size or complexity of FTX. Because the firms are so small, the audit regulator, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), inspects them only once every three years.
Prager Metis has a poor recent track record with the PCAOB (first reported by the Financial Times but publicly available here) and Armanino does, too.
Read more: Dan Kuhn - They Burned Down Crypto. Now They Want a Comeback
In 2019, the PCAOB published its private comments about deficiencies in Armanino’s overall quality-control processes related to its 2018 inspection because the firm hadn't corrected the board within a year.
Armanino was also the auditor for Lottery.com and issued an opinion for 2021. The lottery-sales startup reported that it had overstated its available unrestricted cash balance by $30 million and improperly recognized revenue. There was substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Armanino resigned from its audit role this past September, right before a class-action lawsuit was filed against Lottery.com's executives.
Forbes had previously reported that two Big Four global audit firms were also advising FTX. What were Deloitte and PwC doing for FTX?
Deloitte has made a name for itself in the crypto-friendly public company world as the go-to firm for guidance on the accounting for crypto investments and transactions. Right before its IPO in April 2021, Coinbase switched to Deloitte, which audited six months of financial information and then joined the previous auditor Grant Thornton in presenting its opinion in Coinbase’s first draft registration statement.
Coinbase provides a playbook for accounting for the crypto economy. Deloitte is also works with MicroStrategy – a software company known for its large bitcoin investments – to advise the company on its crypto accounting, despite not being its audit firm. That firm is KPMG.
CoinDesk also has evidence, based on PwC’s own internal systems, that PwC had taken steps to limit its services for FTX US to only those allowed for auditors of public companies. Its Washington, D.C., office posted restrictions for any PwC office seeking business with FTX, limiting the firm’s activities with FTX US in the way that is required for an auditor to be independent under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Perhaps PwC was helping FTX keep its tax bill at zero given its myriad investments and complex global structure. PwC is one of two preeminent Big Four firms (the other is EY) that provides most of the tax lobbying and strategic tax advice to global firms.
Audit firms have interpreted Sarbanes-Oxley as giving them wide latitude to provide all kinds of tax services, even to audit clients. PwC and EY have continued to provide complex tax-structuring and tax-avoidance services that have been scrutinized by the Internal Revenue Service and global tax authorities, even when also signing the audit opinion.
The second red flag for any reader of the 2021 audit reports is that neither the Armanino nor the Prager Metis audit reports for 2021 provides an opinion on the FTX US or FTX Trading internal controls over accounting and financial reporting.
Thursday’s filing by FTX's new CEO, restructuring expert John J. Ray III, who was appointed after the FTX bankruptcy filing, confirms what reading the year-end 2021 financial statements should have screamed to any auditor or reader of the reports: There were no controls.
“Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as I occurred here,” he wrote.
“From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.”
(Ray was similarly appointed after the collapse of Enron in 2001.)
Because FTX is a private company, audits weren't required unless an investor or bank asked for them or if FTX was considering an IPO. That's not to mention that Dodd Frank and the subsequent Jobs Act have chipped away at the protections for investors created by the Sarbanes-Oxley to make internal controls opinions rarer even for companies that do go public.
Sarbanes-Oxley, which was passed after the Enron-era scandals, requires auditors to provide an opinion on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting and for management to provide an assessment of disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting.
FTX, however, was large enough based on its revenue – combined revenue for its U.S. and offshore entities for 2021 according to the audit was $1.08 billion – and its potential market capitalization, to not fall under a Jobs Act exemption that relieves companies from providing an auditor’s report on internal controls, even after they have had an IPO.
Both audit firms wrote that their role is to, “Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of [West Realm Shires lnc.'s and FTX Trading Ltd. and subsidiaries'] internal control.”
However, in both cases, “no such opinion [on internal controls over financial reporting] is expressed.”
The third red flag is, despite a combination of enormous siphoning off of firm assets by related parties and favorable tax planning, neither FTX Trading nor FTX US paid any federal income taxes, although they both appeared to be profitable. FTX Trading's GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net income was $386.5 million in 2021 and $16.7 million in 2020. FTX US reportedly lost $66.7 million on a GAAP basis in 2021, according to the Armanino audited financial statements. The U.S. firm’s activity in 2020 was negligible.
The biggest red flag for preparers and readers of the audited financial statements should have been the number of complex, roundtrip and utterly confounding related-party transactions documented in just these two years. The related-party transactions at FTX Trading are so numerous that it is difficult to know where to begin to analyze them.
The following are the red flags related to transactions between FTX Trading and a control person such as Bankman-Fried, who was acting outside of his role as owner/control person at FTX. The related-party transactions between FTX US and FTX Trading (Alameda and the offshore exchange) appear to be limited as of last Dec. 31.
There are numerous related-party transactions documented for FTX Trading. The footnotes to the financial statements also notably say that the trading and exchange arms also have operations in the U.S. FTX Trading audit firm Prager Metis describes the scope of this set of financial statements and its audit of them as such:
FTX Trading Ltd. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries referred to herein as ""the Company,"" ""the Exchange,"" or ""FTX"") was incorporated in Antigua in 2019. The company operates globally, primarily in the Bahamas, which is the company's headquarters and Antigua, while also maintaining operations in the U.S., Switzerland, Turkey and Australia.
The first related-party activity relates to the role of individuals as liquidity providers, market makers and traders of the firm. Bankman-Fried and other insiders were trading on their own exchange for their own accounts.
Certain related-party entities were the initial liquidity providers and participated in a majority of the market-making transactions at the inception of the exchange. Over time, other liquidity providers joined the exchange, and the percentage of trades involving related parties has decreased as a percentage of total revenue. The related entities do trade for their own proprietary purposes on non-market making transactions.
Liquidity provider, market making and trading exchange transactions with a related party represented about 6% and 11 % of total exchange transaction volume for the years ended Dec. 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Because the related parties were primarily market makers, which therefore generated negative commissions, net revenues (negative) for the years end December 31, 2021 and 2020 were -$22 million and -$13.4 million, respectively, which represented about 2.2% and 14.9% of total exchange transaction revenue on an absolute basis.
Another related-party transaction that has already been reported elsewhere is the exchange software royalty FTX paid to Bankman-Fried.
The exchange software royalty was developed by entities and parties that are significant shareholders. The exchange software was licensed from a related entity for a fee of about 25% of net exchange transaction revenue, depending on the revenue mix. The company has licensed the rights to the software code and the rights to further develop the technology.
The audited financial statements say that software royalties paid to Bankman-Fried for the years ended Dec. 31, 2021 and 2020 were $250.4 million and $22.7 million, respectively. The royalties were calculated based on 33% of net FTX exchange trading revenue, 10% of net additions to the insurance fund and 5% of net fees earned from other uses of FTX platform.
This transaction is reminiscent of the web of related-party transactions orchestrated by WeWork's co-founder Adam Neumann. For example, the startup purchased the trademark on the name ""We"" from him for $5.9 million.
Another highly unusual and perilous related party activity was the use of related parties to manage FTX currency and treasury activities on an “outsourced” basis.
Certain related parties have provided currency and treasury management activities to the company. Those services include that the related entities serve as conduits of fiat, or crypto transactions, maintaining an intercompany account for and on behalf of the company that is repayable on demand, and the provision of the same day conversion of revenue and expense transactions of crypto to U.S. dollars, all at the company's direction. A significant percentage of the company's bill-paying activities have been facilitated through these related-party service transactions.
The FTX Trading audit report says that these currency management transactions were made up of a significant portion of the customer fiat transactions and expense payments to vendors in both fiat and crypto transactions.
Another massive red flag, in line with Allison’s reporting about the dependence on the home-grown FTT token on Alameda’s balance sheet, is the use of the FTX FTT token as currency for acquisitions.
As notable crypto startups like BlockFi and Voyager Digital ran into financial troubles in the last year, Bankman-Fried often stepped in as a white knight. Bankman-Fried swept up Blockfolio, a trading app, reportedly for $150 million, in October 2021. Here is the FTX Trading/Prager Metis audit report language related to that last transaction:
The FTT receivable and liability are marked to market based on the quoted price for the FTT tokens at the reporting date. As of Dec. 31, 202 l and 2020, the receivable was $496.8 million and $44.6 million respectively, and is presented as ""receivable, related party"" in the shareholders' equity section on the consolidated balance sheets.
Related parties entered into an FTX equity-for-FTT crypto option agreement. On Oct. 15, 2020, FTX agreed to purchase 52% of Blockfolio's shares outstanding for $83.6 million, but $78.7 million of this price was to be paid using FTT tokens. It’s in this footnote that we learn that “FTT was created by a related party to tokenize the royalty payments for the trading exchange technology platform licensed to FTX.” Why is that important?
FTX entered into an option with “a related party,” presumably Bankman-Fried, with the right to issue 32.5 million of the company's common shares and $1 million in exchange for 20 million FTT tokens to be delivered to Blockfolio’s selling shareholders on behalf of FTX. FTX immediately exercised the option and expected Bankman-Fried to send the tokens to Blockfolio.
FTT tokens were created by Bankman-Fried to “tokenize” the royalty payments paid to him by FTX Trading for the exchange software he created. FTX offloaded its obligation to Bankman-Fried to pay off Blockfolio in FTT tokens – tokens he created to “tokenize” the royalty payments he received from FTX for the exchange software – and he got more FTX shares in return. What happens to this obligation now that FTT tokens are worthless?
In the next transaction, it seems someone may have had impeccable timing in taking a receivable off the FTX books and benefitting personally. It is difficult to describe how insane and beyond the pale this transaction is from a fraud-risk and conflicts-of-interest perspective.
In 2019, FTX issued 96.5 million Series A preferred shares in exchange for 1 million cryptographic BNB tokens issued by FTX rival Binance. The BNB tokens were subsequently loaned to a related party and were presented as ""BNB receivable, related party"" in FTX Trading's balance sheets as of Dec. 31, 2020. In February 202l, a related party purchased the BNB receivable for about $130.1 million.
Binance’s BNB tokens would have been a good token to have on FTX's balance sheet now. At current prices, 1 million BNB tokens would be worth $270.5 million. The FTX Series A preferred shares were issued against BNB (Binance) tokens that traded at $13 to $14 at the end of 2020, but, again, a related party purchased the BNB receivable in February 2021 for about $130.1 million.
The price of BNB tokens jumped significantly between Jan. 29, 2021 and Feb. 19, 2021 to $257.50 from about $44. If the related party bought before the jump in price, it got a huge bargain on the tokens. At $257.50, the related party overpaid.
There’s another transaction that seems to have muddied the waters between the personal interests and professional responsibilities of key executives. In October 2021, a related party sold 12.8 million of the company's common shares to external investors in a secondary sale transaction for $301.8 million. The proceeds of the secondary sale were retained by FTX on behalf of the related party for operational expediency, and $301.8 million was included in “related party payable” on the consolidated balance sheets as of Dec. 31, 2021.
This $301.8 million may be the next real fiat cash that company top executives grabbed in a hurry on Nov. 11 as it belonged to one of them, according to the audit report.
On the other hand, Ray, the new FTX CEO, now says, according to a Bloomberg report of Thursday’s filing with the court, that the FTX audited financial statements shouldn't be trusted. “Advisors are working to rebuild balance sheets for FTX entities from the bottom up,"" he said."
414,475,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/18/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-wont-budge-cryptos-ignore-the-ftx-chaos-for-another-day/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Won't Budge; Cryptos Ignore the FTX Chaos for Another Day,Sam Reynolds writes that venture capitalists’ failure to scrutinize crypto exchange FTX parallels oversights that led to energy giant Enron’s notorious bankruptcy two decades ago. New FTX CEO should know because he helped oversee Enron’s filing.,2022-11-18,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin continued to trade sideways and hold comfortably above its $16,000 support.
Insights: FTX's failure has parallels to energy company Enron's massive bankruptcy two decades ago, including now the presence of John J. Ray to oversee the wreckage. Sam Reynolds considers the messes.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin Ignores the Chaos for Another Day
By James Rubin
Did the emperor ever have clothes?
New FTX CEO John J. Ray had some thoughts on his predecessor, the embattled crypto exchange's founder Sam Bankman-Fried, in a Delaware court filing.
Ray, who helped preside over energy company Enron's high-profile bankruptcy two decades ago, brutally noted that FTX was less professionally run than a neighborhood lemonade stand.
""Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred here,"" Ray said in a court document filed on Thursday."" From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.""
Bitcoin took the news in stride, trading sideways for most of the day, even as additional revelations surfaced from documents connected to FTX's filing for bankruptcy protection. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was up 1.1% and changing hands easily over the $16,000 support it assumed nine days ago. Ether was changing hands just over its most recent $1,200 support, off roughly a half-percentage point. Other cryptos were flat, some a bit green and others in the red, although Voyager Digital's VGX token soared more than 48% after CoinDesk's scoopmeister Ian Allison reported that crypto exchange Binance was preparing a bid for the bankrupt lending platform.
Equity markets remained largely oblivious to crypto’s cascading crises with the tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average all falling a few fractions of a percentage point. Stocks and cryptos correlation on Thursday offered a veering from recent weeks when the two asset classes showed increasing independence from one another.
In an email to CoinDesk, Jon Campagna, head of trading and capital markets at crypto investment fund CoinFund, said he was ""embarrassed"" and ""saddened"" by FTX's collapse. One of CoinFund's funds made a small equity investment in FTX, Campagna said.
""I have a burning rage I can’t quite extinguish,"" he wrote. ""It hurt to look at the faces of my teammates and partners this week and last. To look at the faces of my competitors and peers as we tried to help each other navigate the turmoil.""
Campagna noted one company founder who worked 20 hours a day for two years who kept his company's treasury, from which he paid his employees, on FTX – and it was now gone, along with his ability to pay his employees.""
""Seeing these faces and hearing these stories filled me with sadness and rage. Sadness that I could've done more to prevent these types of outcomes and rage at the petulant children that created this particular mess. I think the market is reflecting its participants feeling similar sentiments to mine.""
But he added: ""This will pass. And we will build back better and stronger.""
By Sam Reynolds
New FTX CEO John J. Ray III, who was brought in to oversee Enron’s high-profile bankruptcy in 2001, didn’t hold back in his appraisal of FTX and its then-CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried.
""Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred here,"" Ray wrote in a filing to Delaware court. ""From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.""
Ray’s brutal comments offered a stunning rebuke to venture capitalists who invested tens of millions of dollars in FTX after allegedly performing the most exacting due diligence, and others who treated Sam Bankman-Fried and his crypto exchange as white knights in an industry filled with scoundrels.
Here are some highlights from Ray’s report:
“In the Bahamas, corporate funds of the FTX Group were used to purchase homes and other personal items for employees and advisors. There’s no documentation of these transactions as loans, and real estate was recorded in the personal name of these employees and advisors on the records of the Bahamas.”
“The FTX Group’s approach to human resources combined employees of various entities and outside contractors with unclear records and lines of responsibility.”
“The main companies in the Alameda Silo and the Ventures Silo did not keep complete books and records of their investments and activities.”
Now, let’s contrast this with recent statements from venture capitalists who, because of the irresponsibilities at FTX, have now written down their investments to zero.
From Temasek, Singapore’s state-owned venture capital fund:
Similar to all investments, we conducted an extensive due diligence process on FTX, which took approximately eight months from February to October 2021. During this time, we reviewed FTX’s audited financial statement, which showed it to be profitable.
And here’s what Sequoia had to say:
We do not take this responsibility lightly and do extensive research and thorough due diligence on every investment we make. At the time of our investment in FTX, we ran a rigorous diligence process.
But what exactly did these firms do during the due diligence process?
Is it that Bankman-Fried and friends were able to construct a Potemkin village and show investors an alternate reality? Or is it just that his cult of personality is so great that the siren song of promised returns distracted these professionals from their work?
Regardless, Ray and his team have uncovered more holes in a week than companies who explore investments for a living found in months of research.
Through poor accounting, corporate loopholes and other accounting methods, Enron cloaked billions of dollars in debt. Its bankruptcy at the time was the largest in U.S. history.
Notably, Ray led shareholder lawsuits against banks that worked with Enron’s leadership to help prop up its ruse. Eleven banks paid Enron’s creditors around $3.4 billion; Citi paid nearly $1.7 billion. Banks, after all, were part of the problem with Enron. They created, and enabled, the Potemkin village of Enron’s financial vehicles.
Substitute venture capitalists for banks, and the story sounds familiar.
Texas Blockchain Summit
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) GBP Retail Sales (MoM/Oct)
4:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(8:30 UTC) ECB's President Lagarde Speech
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Binance to Relaunch Bid for Bankrupt Voyager: Source; Bitcoin Holds Above $16K Amid FTX Fallout
Binance.US, the American arm of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume, is preparing to bid for bankrupt lending platform Voyager Digital, according to a CoinDesk source. Plus, the new boss of now-failed FTX is condemning that exchange's management under Sam Bankman-Fried. And market maker B2C2 offers to buy loans from Genesis Global Capital. ""First Mover"" dove into these stories, crypto markets and more with B2C2 founder Max Boonen, Opimas CEO Octavio Marenzi and Crypto is Macro Now economist Noelle Acheson.
Bahamas Securities Regulator Says It Ordered FTX Crypto Transferred to Government Wallets: The regulator said it needed ""urgent interim regulatory action"" to protect creditors.
‘Proof of Reserves’ Emerges as a Favored Way to Prevent Another FTX: Several exchanges, including Binance, have announced plans to use the auditing technique to reassure customers.
FTX Collapse Leaves Total Crypto Market Cap Under $800B, Close to 2022 Low: The debacle involving Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire has triggered a slide in cryptocurrency prices that wiped out some $183 billion of value from digital assets this month.
Crypto Risk Management Remains Paramount in Coming Weeks: Derivatives markets show some signs of hope, but only slightly.
Binance’s Lack of Transparency on FTX Bid Could Influence UK Lawmakers' Crypto Recommendations, Bloomberg Reports: Treasury Committee member Alison Thewliss said Binance's submissions on its role in the collapse of rival crypto exchange FTX were not detailed enough.
Alameda Had ‘Secret Exemption’ From FTX Liquidation Protocols, New CEO Says: John Ray detailed a litany of management failings at the crypto exchange, which collapsed after revelations about its relationship with its trading arm
CORRECTION (Nov. 18, 2022, 8 a.m. UTC): CoinFund was not an early investor in FTX."
415,936,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/18/wall-street-banks-seen-as-unlikely-saviors-of-crypto-as-native-firms-struggle/,Wall Street Banks Seen as Unlikely Saviors as Crypto Firms Struggle,"Blockchain true believers say the nascent industry represents an existential threat to traditional finance. But now's probably not the time for Wall Street to gobble up ailing crypto firms, analysts say.",2022-11-18,"It took years for the crypto industry to gain trust – and capital – from the major institutional players on Wall Street. But just as more big traditional players seemed on the cusp of making a move into fast-growing blockchain markets, the messy collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire has renewed comparisons of the digital-asset industry to the Wild West.
As the Welsh poet Robert Williams said, “Trust is the easiest thing in the world to lose, and the hardest thing in the world to get back.”
But one question now is whether big banks might see the crypto industry’s latest troubles as an attractive opportunity to nose into blockchain-based markets.
In May of this year, U.S. banking giant JPMorgan Chase signed two popular crypto exchanges as clients, a sign that Wall Street is starting to accept cryptocurrencies, at least to the extent it sees value in them for its own future.
Might some major banks be looking to step in as savior in times when the industry is struggling, just as John Pierpont Morgan once rescued the banking industry in the early 20th century, prior to the creation of the Federal Reserve? (The Fed, which famously saved Wall Street from collapsing during the financial crisis of 2008, does not stand behind the less-regulated crypto industry.)
Experts say it’s unlikely.
“Banks are the natural enemy of the crypto industry because they both sell purportedly the same product line, so it’s unlikely that they would be willing to step in to assist the industry,” said Dick Bove, Odeon Capital Group chief financial strategist.
In a press statement following the collapse of crypto exchange FTX, the Bank Policy Institute, which represents big banks, said that “as FTX files for bankruptcy after failing to secure a bailout, policymakers should ensure they do not embed crypto firms in the heart of the financial system by giving them Fed accounts.""
If they did, ""the next crisis in the crypto-verse could threaten financial stability,” according to the statement.
Banks, however, have gotten increasingly interested and tried to get a foothold in the crypto industry. Besides JPMorgan, crypto-friendly banking institution Silvergate Bank signed over 850 digital currency customers, including 61 exchanges, 541 institutional investors and 248 other customers.
“The banks that are in this business are going to say, ‘It’s not going to cause a problem for us,’ and the ones who aren’t in it will say, ‘We told you so,’ but they’re not going to be of any help,” Bove said.
Silvergate’s stock is down 10% in November, after it announced that it had exposure to failed crypto exchange FTX. As of Sept. 30, the bank had a total of $11.9 billion in deposits from all digital asset customers, of which FTX's was less than 10%.
U.S. exchanges also might be out of the game.
“For heavily U.S.-regulated exchanges, I doubt that Wall Street would be interested,” said Jim Bianco, president and macro strategist at Bianco Research. “For offshore exchanges, their regulator would probably force them to resign if they touched any of them.”
He says traditional banks don’t understand the crypto business well enough to take the risk of jumping in.
Regulators might be reluctant to allow big Wall Street firms to swallow a big crypto firm, with so many officials at the state and federal levels so vocal on the risks from the digital-asset industry. However, Congress has been slow to create a broad regulatory framework that would embrace crypto as part of the existing financial system.
Wall Street banks probably don't mind too much watching the crypto industry founder, Bove said.
“Banks aren’t worried about the crypto industry breaking away” right now, he said. “Just about every major bank knows how to create its own tokens. If it wants into the industry it is not hard to get there. What the banks want is to avoid their core business from being cannibalized.”
CORRECTION (Nov. 18, 2022, 2:54 a.m. UTC): Notes Silvergate's aggregate deposits from digital asset customers and corrects FTX's share of this total."
416,431,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/18/market-wrap-investors-continue-to-learn-more-about-ftxs-mismanagement/,Market Wrap: Investors Continue to Learn More About FTX's Mismanagement,Bitcoin and ether held steady at their most recent support levels.,2022-11-18,"In an essay for CoinDesk, Francine McKenna, a journalist and lecturer in financial accounting at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, laid out a series of missteps in FTX's auditing process.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Francine McKenna, a journalist and lecturer in financial accounting at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, wrote in an essay for CoinDesk that the blowup of Sam Bankman-Fried's empire was like a meteor striking the crypto world, but foreseeable “if you knew where to look in the audited financial statements.”
McKenna explained that the blowup of Bankman-Fried's empire was like a meteor striking the crypto world, but foreseeable “if you knew where to look in the audited financial statements.”
The first red flag was the existence of two audit firms. “Why hire two different firms rather than one to produce an opinion on consolidated results?” McKenna wrote. “With the benefit of hindsight, we can see it perhaps suggested that Bankman-Fried didn’t want any firm to see the whole picture.”
She questioned FTX’s selection of two small firms, Armanino and Prager Metis, which have little experience auditing large enterprises, instead of Big Four global companies, such as E&Y and KPMG that have a history of working with such clients.
A second red flag for readers of FTX’s 2021 audit reports was that neither Prager Metis nor Armanino “provided an opinion on the FTX US or FTX Trading internal controls over accounting and financial reporting. What was discovered by FTX's new CEO, restructuring expert John J. Ray III, should have been obvious much earlier: ""There were no controls.""
A third red flag that McKenna highlighted was that neither FTX Trading or FTX US paid federal income taxes, although both appeared to be profitable.
The biggest red flag “should have been the number of complex, roundtrip and utterly confounding related-party transactions documented in just these two years,"". The great number of related-party transactions at FTX Trading made the financial analysis quite difficult.
Bitcoin remained steady snugly above its most recent $16,000 support, as investors continued to shrug off the latest developments from the FTX collapse. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $16,600, roughly flat over the past 24 hours. BTC sank less than 2% for the week. How long markets hold tight is unclear, say analysts.
Ether was almost equally unimpressed by the spreading FTX contagio and changing hands just above its recent $1,200 support, up slightly. The second largest crypto in market value rose a few ticks of a percentage point, although ETH was down almost 5% from a week ago.
Sports fan tokens have offered a rare bright spot in the current markets gloom, rising amid soccer World Cup euphoria. The world’s next big sporting event begins Sunday in Qatar. The native token of the Chiliz blockchain (CHZ), which powers the largest sports fan token creator platform Socios.com, has surged 11% in the past 24 hours.
Emurgo, the founding entity of the Cardano blockchain, plans to launch USDA – the first fully fiat-backed, regulatory-compliant stablecoin – in early 2023. Alongside the tokenization of USD, Emurgo will soon enable the conversion of other stablecoins, such as USD Coin (USDC) and tether (USDT) to USDA, with long-term plans to enable conversion and swaps of cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and other cryptocurrencies.
Sports fan tokens rallied ahead of the FIFA World Cup, defying crypto market gloom. Socios.com’s CHZ jumped 11% in a day, while fan tokens of national soccer teams of Portugal and Argentina are up 50% and 28%, respectively, amid mounting anticipation for the soccer World Cup, which starts Sunday.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at the similarities of FTX and other infamous fraudsters.
'A Complete Failure of Corporate Controls': What Investors and Accountants Missed in FTX’s Audits
‘Grayscale Discount’ Widens to Record 43% as FTX Contagion Spreads
Bank of America Downgrades Crypto Exchange Coinbase to Neutral in FTX Aftermath
Sam Bankman-Fried Cashed Out $300M in Previous Funding Round: WSJ
Pension Giant Ontario Teachers' Plans to Write Off All $95 Million Invested in Crypto Exchange FTX
Here’s How Some FTX Account Holders Can Get Their Money Back – But Time Is Running Out
Sorare, Under Pressure From France’s Gambling Regulator, Will Expand Free Access"
417,138,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/18/sam-bankman-fried-cashed-out-300m-in-previous-funding-round-wsj/,Sam Bankman-Fried Cashed Out $300M in Previous Funding Round: Report,"In a previously undisclosed detail, most of the $420 million raised in October 2021 went directly to Bankman-Fried, according to the Wall Street Journal.",2022-11-18,"Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried personally received $300 million from a $420 million funding round for the company in October 2021, according to a Wall Street Journal report that cited FTX financial records it had reviewed, as well as people familiar with the transaction.
The arrangement was previously undisclosed, with Bankman-Fried telling investors at the time it was partially to reimburse him for money he’d spent to buy out Binance’s stake in FTX a few months earlier, the Journal reported.
In July 2021, Bankman-Fried bought out the approximately 15% of FTX owned by Binance, which was FTX’s first investor. Binance CEO Changpeng “CZ” Zhao tweeted this month that the amount of the buyout was $2.1 billion in Binance’s stablecoin BUSD and FTX’s exchange token FTT.
The October 2021 funding round valued FTX at $25 billion and raised money from financial heavyweights such as BlackRock, Tiger Global, Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund Temasek and Sequoia Capital. A few months later, some of those same investors helped raise $400 million for FTX's U.S. subsidiary at an $8 billion valuation.
According to the Journal, it was unclear what Bankman-Fried did with the $300 million, while FTX's 2021 audited financial statements said the money was being kept by the company for ""operational expediency"" on behalf of a ""related party.""
Read more: Temasek Says Its FTX Investment Is Now Worth Zero
UPDATE (Nov. 18, 20:58 UTC): Added information about FTX US fundraise."
418,281,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/19/understanding-the-ftx-fallout-from-the-eyes-of-a-bitcoiner/,Understanding the FTX Fallout From the Eyes of a Bitcoiner,"The financialization, tokenization and the chase of short-term profits seen across Sam Bankman-Fried's trading empire is peak Wall Street.",2022-11-19,"The cryptocurrency world is no stranger to high-profile blowups and cults of personality, and there have been several this year alone. But even by crypto standards, the FTX story is notable for the shocking revelations that have come to light. The rapid downfall of Sam Bankman-Fried is likely a watershed moment for the entire industry.
Steven Lubka, a CoinDesk columnist, is managing director of Swan Private Client Services, a concierge service for high-net-worth investors at Swan Bitcoin.
Much will be written on FTX from a mainstream point of view, and much will be written from the point of view of cryptocurrency investors. You'll hear a lot about FTX from the various venture capitalists (VC) who populate the industry and other influencers who cover decentralized finance (DeFi), Web3 and NFTs (aka non-fungible tokens).
Inevitably, the story that will be shared by crypto insiders will be ""FTX was terrible but it just displays the problems with centralized companies and highlights the benefits of decentralized protocols.""
See also: FTX Showed the Problems of Centralized Finance (and Promises of DeFi) | Opinion
What if that misses the point? The culture, norms and values of crypto had a central role in the rise (and fall) of FTX, more than these voices are likely to admit. Just take it from the bitcoin perspective.
You probably think of bitcoiners (or Bitcoin Maxis) as an odd bunch.
We look like strange fundamentalists who simply cannot wrap our minds around the innovation and possibilities inherent in digital assets other than bitcoin. We won't make any compromises and pursue a very narrow vision for how to develop and continue to grow the Bitcoin protocol.
Bitcoiners can seem like the Amish of Crypto. Weird, right? This perception of bitcoiners is cyclical: We are still coming off the heady highs of yet another crypto bull run and many still believe crypto will bounce back. At the highest moments the possibilities seemed endless, money was falling out of the sky and blockchain was going to change the world. People abandoned the basic precepts of going beyond financial intermediaries. (Why would you self-custody your coins when you can earn 10% lending through Celsius?)
Then came the blowups: Terra, Celsius Network, Three Arrows Capital, Voyager Digital (and many others only saved by bailouts and equity infusions).
The darling coins and new ideas lost 90%+ of their value. The counterparty risk suddenly reared its ugly head. Maybe the position bitcoiners take makes more sense to you now. Maybe not.
During bull runs, bitcoiners look like stubborn fools who just can't understand the possibilities. However, during bear markets, their ideals, values, and approach start to make more sense to people who do a little investigation. The culture of bitcoin, at its heart, is one of hard-won insights. Lessons learned. Money lost.
See also: Bitcoiners Were Right: Weaponized Finance Just Created a Post Dollar Planet | Opinion
In many ways, FTX validates the way bitcoiners approach this industry. Let's explore how!
At the absolute core of Bitcoin is a single principle: we must de-financialize. This is absolutely antithetical to the entire ethos of crypto, which gives anyone the ability to instantly financialize assets. For me, this is actually the most profound divide between Bitcoin and Crypto.
Bitcoin is trying to de-financialize an overly leveraged, financialized world. Crypto is trying to further financialize everything.
Crypto wants art, music, games, login credentials and anything else they can get their hands on to become financialized. Bitcoiners think leverage, subsidization of risk and turning everything into a speculative asset is actually massively net-negative for civilization.
I'll paint you an example: houses. The real estate market is a perfect example of what financialization looks like. Houses have always been valuable, but they haven't always been financial assets in the ways they are today. As soon as the government subsidized the risk for lenders in making home loans, and the central banks made money cheap for mortgage lenders; the price of houses exploded becoming unaffordable for many.
Owning a home is an important aspect of societal cohesion. It's actually “proof-of-stake” for nations. Homeowners become stakeholders in the nation. They form families and they start to care about the long-term prospects of the nation. Financializing houses made them progressively unaffordable and undermined societal cohesion and financialization is everywhere in the contemporary economy.
FTX couldn't have existed without a culture that values financialization for its own sake. It became a popular exchange by offering traders insane leverage and the ability to collateralize almost any of their altcoin holdings (unlike many derivatives exchanges, and all spot markets). FTX also listed more exotic derivatives products than other exchanges and spent a lot of time optimizing their liquidation engine (yes, this made liquidations kinder but it also represented a push into more leverage).
Leverage is a weird thing. The optimal amount of leverage is always zero leverage, according to economists Ole Peters and Alexander Adamou. When people identify a market with low volatility and decide to take on leverage to juice returns, they end up inducing volatility into that market via the leverage itself.
See also: Why Bitcoin Has Been Highly Correlated With Fiat | Opinion
That means leverage can never work in the long term. Yes, I know you know someone who made a fortune with a risky leveraged bet over a few weeks, but structurally, over the long term, leverage can never yield structural outperformance of markets as the presence of leverage itself leads to blowups that liquidate the leveraged.
This increased volatility results in liquidations for levered players and shows the optimal leverage is always zero. FTX was an endorsement of leverage and financialization. Bankman-Fried said recently that he let it get out of hand, thinking his hedge fund could make a bigger impact if it made bigger bets.
Leverage was bad for users, bad for hedge funds and bad for FTX itself. Bitcoiners often push for full-reserve spot markets, and advise new users to stay away from leverage and to reduce their counterparty risk.
FTX was built on the opposite principles.
The crypto community often picks its champions based on one criteria: whether they make money. FTX is what happens when we divorce wealth and success from morality and ethics. It's extremely likely that SBF at some point misappropriated customer deposits to perform ""effective altruism.""
In this sense, Bankman-Fried serves as the paragon of an industry: someone who is fine with harming others if it furthers his definition of the good. There’s a long line of influential people in crypto that came before him that essentially operated on the same principle, even if they didn’t directly steal or grift. Bankman-Fried is the culmination of contemporary crypto culture, a phenomenon enabled by VCs, media and users alike, Bankman-Fried is the output you get when your input is the contemporary values of the crypto community.
Now, that’s not to say bitcoiners are allergic to wealth or success. The difference is that wealth is good when it is generated *ethically* and *morally.* Wealth is good when it comes from providing value to the world or building something that matters.
Ethics? Morals? Here go the bitcoiners moralizing again!
I get it. Hearing about how there is a morality gap between Bitcoin and Crypto sounds like fundamentalism. But it only comes from understanding the incentives and values which are behind the past 50 years of economic change and thinning. A paradigm that saw the rise of financial service providers over industry. Financialization over value creation. And capital depletion over capital creation. In other words, postmodern finance.
Glorifying financialization, amoral wealth creation and unrestricted issuance of financial instruments have created a system of incentives that enabled fraud, manipulation and deceit to happen repeatedly.
Maybe you know of a crypto founder who is acting in good faith, really believes in their project and hasn't taken advantage of their token’s issuance mechanisms in any way – wonderful! These people certainly exist.
However, empowering anyone (including anonymous founders) to issue financial instruments in a completely unrestricted manner while funding them with an endless stream of cheap VC cash has created an unsustainable system. Worse, opaque claims about “innovation” and utopian visions of a future without hierarchies enticed retail investors and created a situation with comically bad incentives. Is anyone actually surprised Sam Bankman-Fried got his start during the initial coin offering boom?
Further, the ability of a centralized team to control the issuance of a token is highly contentious. You can say tokens are a way to decentralize ownership and influence in a project, but if you look at what happens in practice instead of, in theory, you will find massively concentrated ownership among insiders.
Tokens are issued as though they were equity, and serve the exact same role for founders – that's because founders are selling tokens to fund their joint ventures. Why are securities regulated in traditional financial markets?
Because over hundreds of years we have observed time and time again that allowing people unrestricted access to the sale of financial instruments which were minted from thin air resulted in continuous abuses of power.
See also: The Rise and Fall of Bitcoin Culture | Opinion
Does that mean securities laws are perfect? Does it mean that the Securities and Exchange Commission is infallible? Of course not. But it does show us that being able to issue tokens from thin air is at the heart of so many disastrous crypto outcomes.
Regardless of what they actually are, people buy tokens believing they are a type of equity. They think they represent ownership in the protocol.
Did FTT represent ownership in FTX? ABSOLUTELY NOT! But people treated it like it did, despite being a worthless integer in a spreadsheet that FTX controlled unilaterally. FTX would not have happened if:
FTX couldn't print FTT from thin air
FTX didn't control the exchange and the prop firm (Alameda)
FTX didn't wash trade FTT to inflate its paper valuation
Borrowers didn't accept tokens printed from thin air as collateral
The entire scheme relied on FTX being able to borrow against FTT. Why? Because if it had to sell FTT the market would have gone illiquid as there were few natural buyers.
FTX used this same playbook to inflate its assets using Serum, MAPS and OXY. It discovered it could seize control of ""decentralized protocols,"" acquire a huge percentage of the supply and artificially pump the value into an illiquid market.
See also: Why Selling Some Bitcoin at a Loss Can Maximize Your Holding Potential | Opinion
DeFi, or decentralized finance, provided absolutely no protection against this. Despite creating non-custodial and verifiable protocols, DeFi has also created the cultural precedent where centralized teams of developers behind the scenes control of keys and almost always the coins. Bankman-Fried likely saw he could game this ... and did, like in the strange Sushi storyline.
Ironically, the crypto world loves to champion decentralization. They say we need decentralized protocols, decentralized exchanges, decentralized everything. But crypto loves centralized issuance of tokens. Why is no one fighting for purely decentralized issuance of these tokens?
Proof-of-work mining was designed as a fair issuance system where there are no privileged insiders and everyone competes for tokens by doing costly work. This isn't sufficient if insiders can start mining before others, but as long as there is a fair launch mining is the most decentralized way to bring a token to market.
If you remove the ability for companies and teams to issue tokens, you suck the air out of so many of these abuses.
There is more to the story, but these three core tenets are at the heart of the FTX saga: financialization, separating wealth from ethics and centralized issuance of tokens. There is a rot at the core of the cryptocurrency universe, and it is fueled by allowing these trends to propagate and fostering a culture of predation.
Ideologically, crypto was supposed to be a break from the traditional financial system, yet it has largely only succeeded in recreating some of the worst aspects of modern finance – only with fewer guardrails. Crypto is peak Wall Street, an acceleration of financialization, amoral business and the cult of personalities.
Bitcoiners fight for de-financialization, moral accrual of wealth and protocols built without centralized token issuance. This is one reason Bitcoin matters. It offers us a pathway to a new system (or perhaps a return to an older system – things weren't always like this!).
See also: The Bitcoiners Who Live 'Permanently Not There'
The FTX story will be spun as something which is fixable by DeFi. You will hear this. I don't think it's true. DeFi protocols themselves (separated from tokens, etc.) may do some things well, like enabling non-custodial financial services through programs that stick to a predetermined set of rules and are independently verifiable.
But there’s a difference between theory and practice. DeFi didn't stop FTX from capturing the decentralized exchange Serum or other protocols. Perhaps DeFiers will say, ""Well, that's not real DeFi."" Yes, and the Soviet Union wasn’t ""Real Communism,"" it was just what happens every time we try it."
419,258,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/11/20/ftx-exploiter-converts-millions-in-ether-to-alameda-linked-ren-bitcoin-tokens/,FTX Exploiter Converts Millions in Ether to Alameda-Linked Ren Bitcoin Tokens,"In addition, the exploiter transferred thousands of ether to a brand-new wallet.",2022-11-20,"Whoever was behind the $600 million exploit of crypto exchange FTX started exchanging millions of dollars worth of ether to ren bitcoin (renBTC), a token that represents bitcoin on other blockchains, early on Sunday.
Funds stolen from FTX were steadily converted to ether over the past week, making the exploiter one of the largest holders of the token, as CoinDesk previously reported.
The use of renBTC may surprise some in the crypto space: In 2021, Alameda Research – the Sam Bankman-Fried-owned trading arm at the center of a multibillion-dollar scandal – said ren’s development team was “joining” Alameda and would work on expanding ren’s usage to several blockchains.
At 07:27 UTC Sunday, the hacker moved over 5,000 ether to a new wallet, blockchain data shows. An additional 35,000 ether was then moved to that wallet over three separate transactions.
On-chain analysis of the new wallet shows the exploiter subsequently started to convert ether to renBTC using the decentralized exchange aggregator 1inch. The first of such transactions had 4,000 ether being converted to wrapped bitcoin (wBTC), another bitcoin representative token, and then to renBTC.
The exploiter continued to convert ether to renBTC over several transactions, blockchain data shows.
Data cited by security firm PeckShield shows the exploiter used the Ren bridge to transfer out thousands of renBTC. Bridges are blockchain-based tools that allow users to exchange tokens between different networks.
As per a study by blockchain analysis firm Elliptic, the Ren bridge has been previously used to launder stolen funds to the tune of at least $540 million – as it may provide privacy to users, per the Elliptic report.
UPDATE (Nov. 12, 2022, 14:03 UTC): Clarifies the possible usage of Ren for laundering money."
420,219,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/21/us-senators-ask-bank-regulators-to-review-sofis-crypto-listings/,US Senators Ask Bank Regulators to 'Review' SoFi's Crypto Listings,"""SoFi’s digital asset activities pose significant risks to both individual investors and safety and soundness,"" the lawmakers said.",2022-11-21,"U.S. senators Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Chris Van Holland (D-Md.) and Tina Smith (D-Minn.) wrote open letters to digital finance company SoFi and several bank regulators, asking for a ""review"" of SoFi's crypto offerings.
The letter to SoFi expressed concerns about the company expanding its crypto business, how it holds customers' cryptos and its listing of dogecoin (DOGE), which a blog post on the company's website cited as an example of a ""pump and dump"" coin.
The lawmakers asked SoFi to explain how it lists cryptocurrencies for sale, how it addresses customer complaints and how it determines ""the appropriate credit, market and operational risk capital requirements for digital asset exposures.""
The letter to the company also asked if SoFi lists any cryptocurrencies that are securities, and, if so, whether it's licensed to offer securities.
A separate letter addressed to Federal Reserve Vice Chair for Supervision Michael Barr, Acting Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chair Martin Gruenberg and Acting Comptroller of the Currency Michael Hsu said SoFi ""committed not to 'expand [its] impermissible activities'"" but that the company ""has apparently expanded its digital asset retail operations.""
""SoFi’s digital asset activities pose significant risks to both individual investors and safety and soundness. As we saw with the crypto meltdown this summer, where crypto-assets lost over $1 trillion in value in a matter of weeks, contagion in the banking system was limited because of regulatory guardrails,"" the letter said. ""In the event of crypto-related exposures at SoFi Digital Assets ultimately require its parent company, bank holding company, or affiliated national bank to seek emergency liquidity or other financial assistance from the Federal Reserve or FDIC, taxpayers may be on the hook.""
In a statement, a SoFi spokesperson said the company allows its members to buy and sell cryptocurrencies but does not provide any other type of crypto-related financing activity.
""SoFi takes our regulatory and compliance commitments seriously, including our non-bank operations within the digital assets space,"" the spokesperson said. ""We believe we have been fully compliant with the mandates of our bank license and all applicable laws. Additionally, we maintain consistent, constructive dialogue with each of our regulators. Cryptocurrency remains a non-material component of our business. We look forward to sharing the requested information with the senators in a timely fashion.""
The spokesperson also said SoFi had no exposure to FTX, the FTT token, Alameda Research or Genesis Global Trading. (Genesis shares a parent company with CoinDesk, Digital Currency Group.)"
421,786,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/21/first-mover-asia-cryptos-dive-deep-into-the-red/,First Mover Asia: Cryptos Dive Deep Into the Red,ALSO: Sam Reynolds writes that the crypto industry might be better off in the long run if some major initiatives wind down.,2022-11-21,"Editor-in-Chief's note (Jan. 20, 2023, 2:04 UTC): Due to an editorial lapse, the section of this edition of First Mover Asia on Solana and other Ethereum competitors included an unqualified prediction and other opinionated language that doesn't belong in a column of this type. The language has been modified accordingly.
Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin slumped nearly 3%, but held well above its recent $16K support; other major cryptos dive more deeply.
Insights: CoinDesk reporter Sam Reynolds looks toward a post FTX future. The industry might be better off if major initiatives such as Grayscale Bitcoin Trust and Solana wound down.
Cryptos Take a Late Weekend Plunge
By James Rubin
Four days before the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday, crypto markets decided they didn't have much for which to be thankful.
Bitcoin was recently down 2.8% over the past 24 hours (UTC), although it managed to hold snugly above its most recent $16,000 support for a 12th consecutive day. Last week, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization weathered the cascade of misadventures tied to crypto exchange FTX's collapse, although Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote in an email to CoinDesk that investors should gird themselves for a rocky week ahead.
""The last week saw bitcoin trading in a very tight range, unable to breach $17K conclusively,"" DiPasquale wrote. ""However, given the sideways action, we can expect volatility in the coming week.""
Ether was recently trading below its most recent $1,200 support and was down over 6% from Saturday, same time. The second-largest crypto in market value has plummeted almost 10% from its high of $1,275 last week. Other major cryptos dove deeply into the red with sports fan coin CHZ plunging more than 14%. CHZ and fan tokens for national soccer teams had been on an upswing recently amid euphoria for the World Cup, which kicked off Sunday with Ecuador defeating the host nation Qatar.
Popular meme coin DOGE, and Crypto.com's token, were recently trading down more than 10%.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was down 0.4% and about where it stood a week ago. The Fear and Greed index, a measure of market sentiment about crypto, remained in extreme fear territory – its standing throughout much of the growing FTX crisis.
Crypto prices veered from equity markets, an increasing occurrence in recent weeks as the major indexes each closed slightly higher on Friday two days after the Commerce Department's monthly retail report showed surprisingly resilient consumer spending. The tech-heavy Nasdaq was up 0.01%, while the S&P 500, which has a strong tech component, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) climbed 0.48% and 0.59%, respectively.
Traditional markets have also been unaffected by FTX's spectacular flameout and now daily revelations about its mismanagement. On Sunday, CoinDesk's Shaurya Malwa (a regular contributor to this newsletter) wrote that whoever was behind the $600 million exploit of FTX on Nov. 11 had started exchanging millions of dollars worth of ether to ren bitcoin (renBTC), a token that represents bitcoin on other blockchains.
Earlier in the week, Malwa reported that funds stolen from FTX were steadily converted to ether over the past week, making the exploiter one of the largest holders of the token.
BitBull's DiPasquale said that bulls will be looking for ongoing support above bitcoin's brief low at about $15,500 earlier this month as FTX's severe liquidity problems became apparent. ""Once that range is evident, consolidation around that low could see the price shooting toward $18k in the near term,"" he wrote.
Would Crypto Thrive Again Through Subtraction?
By Sam Reynolds
In a year, we might look back at the spectacular fraud-filled collapse of FTX as a good thing.
Its demise has confirmed many people’s worst fears about the digital assets industry: that it's an unregulated free-for-all, established behind elaborate corporate structures in jurisdictions that are conveniently out of reach of Western courts.
For the most part, this is correct (see: the leviathan of legal entities that is FTX).
There’s also the question that’s being answered in real time about how much of crypto is “funny money,” a concocted entity without worth based on an unsustainable structure, and not “sound money,” a fundamental store of value.
Right now, we can watch this all come apart. Here are two examples.
1. GBTC’s current discount
Grayscale’s Bitcoin Trust (GBTC)’s shares are now trading at a discount of 45% below the net asset value.
(CoinDesk is an independent subsidiary of Digital Currency Group [DCG], which also owns Grayscale.)
A total of $10.53 billion in capital is right now handicapped because it holds shares in something that trades less than the value of the asset it holds. And there’s no way to redeem these shares for bitcoin.
Data on a 13F form (a quarterly form filled out by fund managers) shows that institutions have been dropping GBTC during the last few quarters thanks to DCG’s buyback programs. This has made DCG the largest shareholder of the Trust.
The end goal for GBTC is to transform it into an exchange-traded fund, but the Securities and Exchange Commission blocks that with every chance it gets.
So why not wind down the trust? Sure, many of the large holders will take a loss, but there are billions of dollars of impaired capital that should have a better home.
2. Ethereum killers' struggles
Speaking of impaired capital, many would-be Ethereum killers have been struggling mightily.
Solana began the year with a total value locked of over $6 billion and may end the year with under $200 million if current trends continue. When compared to its peak value of $10 billion at the height of the bull market, there’s just over 2.8% of its locked-in value currently left. Many of the protocols that operate on Solana have been totally wiped out, according to data from DeFiLlama.
Surely, some of the venture capitalists that backed Solana and encouraged retail investors to ape-in during the ""Solana Summer"" took profit during the early days. But any exposure remaining on the balance sheets must be an anchor.
Just like the investors who apparently did their due diligence on FTX and missed the glaring holes the new CEO found in a week, how could these investors miss the problems with Solana? Did their due diligence not reveal that a good majority of the ecosystem was effectively a Russian nesting doll of fakery, as CoinDesk reported a few months ago? Or did they just want to put the pump on the coin?
But for as much as we talk about Solana that could be a distraction from larger would-be ethereum killers lurking beneath the surface. Has anyone checked in on Polkadot, Klaytn or Waves recently?
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Germany's Producer Price Index (MoM/Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) The Chicago Fed National Activity Index (Oct)
5:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(21:45 UTC) New Zealand Trade Balance NZD (YoY/Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bahamas Regulator Orders FTX Crypto Transferred to Government Wallets; Bitcoin in Narrow Band Between $16.5K and $17K
Is a battle brewing over the jurisdiction of FTX's bankruptcy proceedings? CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De explained the Bahamas regulatory order requiring the exchange to transfer its crypto to government wallets, and how it may complicate bankruptcy proceedings. Also Ropes & Gray Counsel Daniel Gwen joined the discussion. Plus, IDX Digital Assets CIO Ben McMillan provided his crypto markets analysis as bitcoin (BTC) ignores the FTX chaos, for now.
Bitcoin Financial Services Firm Unchained Capital Cutting Staff, Reshuffling Management: While the company has no exposure to FTX, the extended bitcoin bear market is taking a toll on parts of the business.
Crypto Exchanges' Proof of Reserves Have Too Many Shortcomings A Bank of America Research Report Stated: The cryptocurrency industry also needs a clear delineation between trading platforms and market makers, the bank said.
Crypto Firm Genesis Block Ceases Trading Services Amid FTX Contagion, Reuters Reports: The Hong Kong-based company was once Asia’s largest bitcoin ATM player.
‘Grayscale Discount’ Widens to Record 43% as FTX Contagion Spreads: The added pressure comes after Genesis Global Capital – a corporate sibling to bitcoin trust manager Grayscale Investments – halted customer withdrawals from its lending unit this week.
Ripple Seeks Crypto License in the Republic of Ireland, CNBC Reports: Ripple has turned its attention to countries outside the U.S. due to its ongoing lawsuit with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission."
422,686,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/21/uk-may-need-digital-pound-bank-of-englands-jon-cunliffe-says/,"UK May Need Digital Pound, Bank of England's Jon Cunliffe Says",The deputy governor said FTX's collapse highlights the need for more oversight of digital assets.,2022-11-21,"Jon Cunliffe, deputy governor at the Bank of England (BoE), said the U.K. may need a digital British pound as he discussed whether the collapse of crypto exchange FTX would influence the country's decision to issue a government-controlled digital currency.
Although he initially thought there was no connection between the FTX debacle and the central bank's work on a central bank digital currency, Cunliffe said on Monday that he understands the concerns.
""Over the past few days, I have had a few comments both to the effect that the collapse of FTX shows that we need to get on and issue a digitally native pound – and to the effect that FTX shows that we do not need do so,"" Cunliffe said at a conference at the Warwick Business School in Coventry, England.
FTX in particular is ""emblematic of these new technologies and the possibility that they might revolutionize financial services and the forms that money takes,"" Cunliffe said.
Sam Bankman-Fried's multibillion-dollar crypto enterprise filed for bankruptcy in the U.S. on Nov. 11 after a liquidity crunch set off by a CoinDesk article led to its collapse.
On Monday, Cunliffe said that crypto needs to be regulated in the U.K. to protect consumers and investors, ensure financial stability and enable innovation. Cunliffe has previously called for existing financial regulations to be extended to cover crypto.
Legislation now being considered in Parliament would set up regulations for crypto as financial instruments and give U.K. regulators – including the BoE – more control over the sector. If the bill becomes law, the BoE would regulate firms that issue stablecoins, which are digital tokens whose value is pegged to stable assets like the U.S. dollar.
The central bank will kick off a consultation on stablecoins next year that will look at ""the requirements for corporate structure, governance, accountability and transparency necessary"" to meet the standards expected in other parts of the financial system, Cunliffe said on Monday.
""The FTX example underlines how important these aspects are,"" he said.
The BoE has also been exploring issuing a digital pound. Its work on a ""digitally native pound"" is driven by trends in payments, Cunliffe said, ""including the reducing role of cash, and more generally in the increasing digitalization of daily life.""
""Our approach as regulators should be open – by which I mean we should be prepared to explore whether and if so how the necessary level of assurance equal to that in conventional finance could be attained. But we should also be firm that where it cannot, we are not prepared to see innovation at the cost of higher risk,"" Cunliffe said.
Read more: Policy Makers Should Get On With Regulating Crypto, BOE’s Cunliffe Says"
423,459,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/21/ftxs-collapse-a-wake-up-call-for-venture-capitalists-dragonfly-partner-says/,"FTX’s Collapse a Wake-Up Call for Venture Capitalists, Dragonfly Partner Says",Tom Schmidt noted that more discerning VCs didn't invest in the failed crypto exchange.,2022-11-21,"The fallout of bankrupt crypto exchange FTX's collapse is a wake-up call for venture capitalists, Tom Schmidt, a partner at crypto-centered investment firm Dragonfly Capital, said Monday.
Schmidt told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program that in the case of FTX, the red flags that VCs missed may have in part been due to the “byproduct of the funding environment,” which made it easier for crypto startups to receive early-stage funding with ""extremely low interests,"" as ""tons of capital"" flooded into the VC market.
“Naturally, when you have so many more bidders than opportunities, that moves the price up and [it] shortens diligence time [and] the amount of negotiation and leverage that VCs have in those conversations,” Schmidt said.
Read more: FTX Investment Now Worth Zero, VC Giant Sequoia Says
But the market is different now. According to a report from investment-management firm Galaxy Digital, VC funding for crypto startups plunged 80% to $5.5 billion in the third quarter from a year ago, although the report also said that early-stage investing remained “competitive and robust,” while late-stage investing appeared to have shown signs of “notable weakness.”
Schmidt, who says that Dragonfly Capital is looking to back teams that are in the early stages of development, implied that the amount of money available from funds that didn’t ask tough questions more than offset the amount from more discerning investors who were turned off by the lack of oversight at FTX's board.
“The VCs who were asking for those weren’t getting into the round, and that’s sort of where the rounds ended up getting cleared,” Schmidt said, adding that at the time, “things may have looked fine.”
Read more: Yuga Labs, Circle, SkyBridge Among Investments FTX Ventures Made Prior to Liquidity Issues
Now, the tide for VCs may be “shifting,” giving investors more “leverage in negotiations,” Schmidt said.
FTX’s collapse may be a marker for addressing the broader issues of “oversight, compliance [and] auditing” and that may weed out some founders, he said.
“The type of skills that you need as a seed-stage founder are very different than what you need at a Series C and beyond,” Schmidt said.
Half of the San Francisco-based firm’s portfolio is composed of investments in decentralized-finance (DeFi) and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) projects, which Schmidt says is an effort to give the community control over a protocol earlier on, reducing the role that a founder needs to play in a project’s long-term growth."
424,683,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/21/investors-short-crypto-assets-amid-scrutiny-over-crypto-industry/,Investors Short Crypto Assets as Industry Scrutiny Intensifies,"Short investment products accounted for 75% of total inflows into crypto assets last week, a report by digital asset investment and trading group CoinShares showed.",2022-11-21,"Crypto investors allocated the majority of their assets in short investment products last week, signaling “deeply negative” sentiment for digital currencies amid the recent bankruptcy of crypto exchange FTX.
Short investment products, which bet on the price of an asset to drop, accounted for 75% of all inflows, a report by digital asset investment and trading group CoinShares found. Inflows for bitcoin (BTC) totaled $14 million, but considering the popularity of short-term investment vehicles, net flows added up to a negative $4.3 million.
Inflows into short-ether (ETH) investment products also hit a new high of $14 million, while the blockchain-based token only saw minor outflows, the report showed.
The data shows that investors are deeply scared by FTX’s collapse, which was once regarded as one of the most trusted crypto exchanges but turned into possibly the biggest fraud in crypto history.
“On aggregate sentiment was deeply negative for the asset class, likely being a direct result of the ongoing fallout from the FTX collapse,” James Butterfill, head of research at CoinShares said.
Read more: FTX’s Collapse a Wake-Up Call for Venture Capitalists, Dragonfly Partner Says
Total asset under management (AUM), which represents the total market value of investments held by an entity on behalf of investors, dropped to $22 billion, its lowest point in two years.
The price of bitcoin is down over 16% in the past month and ether is trading just under 15% lower. Both have suffered heavy losses this year as a result of a combination between high interest rates and multiple bankruptcies in the crypto industry.
Read more: Coinbase, MicroStrategy Bonds Tank as FTX Collapse Dents Institutional Confidence in Crypto"
425,421,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/22/curves-crv-token-slides-17-as-exchange-balance-hits-record-high/,Curve's CRV Token Turns Volatile as Exchange's Balance Hits Record High,The token sank to a two-year low of 40 cents early Tuesday before quickly bouncing back to 53 cents.,2022-11-22,"CRV, the governance token of decentralized exchange Curve, has turned volatile amid a surge in the number of coins held at centralized trading platforms.
The token dropped 17% to a two-year low of 40 cents early Tuesday before erasing the losses with a V-shaped recovery. At press time, the token had returned to positive territory for the day, changing hands at 53 cents, according to CoinDesk data.
The number of CRV held in centralized exchange wallets has increased by 70% to a record 148.9 million this month, with the tally surging by 46% in the past 24 hours alone, according to data tracked by Glassnode.
In other words, the number of CRV available for liquidation on centralized exchanges has substantially increased. Investors typically transfer coins from their wallets to exchanges when intending to sell their positions.
Developments in the CRV market are notable, as Curve, which specializes in stablecoin swaps, is the biggest source of liquidity in decentralized finance (DeFi). That means any issue at Curve can have broader market implications.
CRV's exchange balance has surged amid reports of a large investor transferring large number of borrowed tokens to centralized exchanges.
According to several Twitter-based researchers, including Lookonchain, the investor recently borrowed 20 million CRV from the DeFi lending giant Aave and transferred half of that to OKEx, possibly to sell the cryptocurrency. The balance held on OKEx has increased by 11.3 million this month, according to Glassnode data.
The latest edition of the Curve newsletter has referred to the activity as a ""big short"".
A huge $CRV shorter borrowed 20M $CRV($9.9M) from #Aave and transferred 10M $CRV($4.9M) to #OKEx.

He has lent 37M $CRV from #Aave in the past 7 days.

The price of $CRV dropped from $0.625 to $0.464, a decrease of about 26%.

Now he is dumping the 20M $CRV he borrowed! pic.twitter.com/sSiMqEE5C3
CRV's near-term prospects appear to be bleak as the uptick in the exchange's balance is accompanied by a lack of incentive to hold the token or provide liquidity on Curve.
""While Curve was initially a winner after FTX, a lack of user engagement will now hurt them in the short term,"" Markus Thielen, head of research and strategy at crypto-services provider Matrixport, said, referring to the collapse this month of crypto exchange FTX. ""There is less interest from users to provide their tokens into liquidity pools and even lock them up in terms of total value locked.""
""Genesis and DCG are adding to the risk of a fire sale for individual tokens,"" Thielen added, referring to Genesis Global Trading and its parent, Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk. Genesis is facing liquidity issues.
Curve saw massive outflows between Nov. 8 and Nov. 13 as FTX went bust, injecting volatility and uncertainty into markets. The total value locked in Curve has declined to $3.78 billion, the lowest since February 2021."
426,136,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/22/lawyers-detail-the-abrupt-and-difficult-collapse-of-ftx-in-first-bankruptcy-hearing/,Lawyers Detail the ‘Abrupt and Difficult’ Collapse of FTX in First Bankruptcy Hearing,"FTX’s lawyers say former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried ran the exchange like his own “personal fiefdom,” allowing executives to use customer funds to purchase luxury real estate.",2022-11-22,"“You have witnessed probably one of the most abrupt and difficult collapses in the history of corporate America,” an attorney for FTX said during the company’s first bankruptcy hearing in Delaware on Tuesday.
James Bromley of Sullivan and Cromwell, representing FTX, detailed the company’s rise and collapse in a brief presentation during the hearing, explaining how the company fell apart within the course of two weeks after a CoinDesk report showed that Alameda Research, a subsidiary of the overall FTX group, held an unexpectedly large amount of FTT tokens, issued by FTX itself.
There are over 100 different debtors tied to the FTX group that filed for bankruptcy, another attorney said.
Bromley called the case an “unprecedented matter,” tacitly acknowledging the chaos of FTX’s bankruptcy, which saw a hack the night it filed for bankruptcy and several days before typical first-day filings were available.
The new team at FTX, including new CEO John Ray III, has “assembled a team of investigators,” which includes former enforcement officials with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and former prosecutors, Bromley said. FTX has also retained crypto analytics firm Chainalysis to help it investigate the company’s holdings.
Bromley also acknowledged the number of investigations into FTX.
""We have received requests I would say – some might say demands – from the U.S. Congress, both from the Senate and the House [of Representatives] to have Mr. Ray appear during the month of December,” he said.
The House Financial Services Committee and the Senate Agricultural Committee have both announced hearings into FTX’s collapse next month.
Bromley described the FTX empire – at its height valued at $32 billion – as the “personal fiefdom of Sam Bankman-Fried,” the former CEO of the exchange. The lawyer told the court that Bankman-Fried and a small group of executives ran the company “with a lack of corporate controls that none of us in the profession … have ever seen.”
The attorney questioned some of FTX’s expenditures, saying that one of the U.S. entities spent around $300 million on real estate in the Bahamas – homes and vacation homes for members of FTX’s leadership team.
Bromley said that when Bankman-Fried reluctantly handed over the reins to FTX’s new CEO, former Enron cleanup man John Jay Ray III, it allowed those left at the company to, “for the first time, really see under the covers and recognize that the emperor had no clothes.”
Though Bromley did not identify Bankman-Fried by name, he told the court that FTX “was in the control of a small group of inexperienced and unsophisticated individuals, and unfortunately, the evidence seems to indicate that some or all of them are also compromised individuals.”
“A substantial amount of [FTX’s] assets have either been stolen or are missing,” Bromley said."
427,143,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/22/who-is-alamedas-former-co-ceo-sam-trabucco/,Who Is Alameda's Former co-CEO Sam Trabucco?,The former co-CEO of Alameda Research took steps to distance himself from the firm before and after announcing his departure.,2022-11-22,"Former co-CEO of Alameda Research
One of the firm's first hires, who oversaw the development of ever-riskier trading strategies
Retired in early 2022
When Sam Trabucco stepped down as co-CEO of trading firm Alameda Research in August, he tweeted, ""But if I've learned anything at Alameda, it's how to make good decisions – and this is the right one for me.""
In hindsight, it seems like impeccable timing for Trabucco to quit a high-stress job to spend time on his newly purchased boat – mere months before the company would go under water.
See also: Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle
It only took 10 days for Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire to go from processing withdrawals, albeit slowly, to declaring bankruptcy. This followed a CoinDesk report in November showing that, for all intents and purposes, Alameda Research, which had $8 billion of liabilities and $14.6 billion in assets, was insolvent.
The hedge fund Trabucco ran likely came to own many of its illiquid altcoins during his tenure. This includes the inexplicably large amount of FTT, the exchange token for Alameda’s sister company, FTX.
Trabucco joined Alameda as a trader in 2019 after a stint as a quant trader on Susquehanna International Group’s bond desk. He was appointed co-CEO in October 2021 with Caroline Ellison, after his friend-cum-boss Bankman-Fried resigned in an attempt to distance the SBF-owned trading firm from the SBF-controlled trading platform.
“He is not really involved in day-to-day operations in Alameda. Caroline and I have been leading the charge there for quite some time,” Trabucco told CoinDesk at the time.
Trabucco met Bankman-Fried during a five week math camp at Mount Holyoke College in 2010, according to Insider. He recalled that Bankman-Fried barely slept during their stay. The two reunited at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Trabucco received his bachelor’s degrees in math and computer science.
As co-CEO, Trabucco helped oversee Alameda’s expansion beyond its initial market-neutral, but relatively low-profit business as a market maker for low-volume cryptocurrencies into riskier trading strategies, according to a Twitter thread detailing that shift. For instance, he said Alameda traders began exploring yield farming in decentralized finance (DeFi).
Eventually, according to Trabucco’s account, the trading firm began taking in “huge” profits placing highly leveraged bets on assets like dogecoin after noticing its price went up whenever Elon Musk tweeted about the meme coin.
Although the full story is not yet known, emerging evidence suggests Alameda suffered a series of losses during the beginning of the crypto market downturn. Ellison did not include Trabucco among a list of named persons who knew about the decision to send customer funds to Alameda, as reported by the Wall Street Journal.
In August, Trabucco announced his resignation and became an adviser of the company. On Nov. 8, when FTX agreed to sell itself to Binance, Trabucco tweeted, ""Much love to everyone,"" and that he ""hope[d] the road ahead is brighter.""
Trabucco did not return a request for comment for this article."
428,55,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/22/on-chain-data-shows-close-ties-between-ftx-and-alameda-were-there-from-the-start-nansen/,On-Chain Data Shows Close Ties Between FTX and Alameda Were There From the Start: Nansen,"Niklas Polk, a research analyst at the analytics firm, discusses its latest report, and what on-chain data reveals about the wallets used by FTX and Alameda.",2022-11-22,"Despite claims by the companies to the contrary, blockchain data shows crypto exchange FTX and sister company Alameda Research were very much connected from the beginning, said Niklas Polk, a research analyst at analytics firm Nansen.
Polk told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” on Tuesday that on-chain data shows the two companies had been closely intertwined since 2019. But making sense of the data could be the reason why no one saw the FTX collapse coming. The centralized exchange capitalized on its obscurity, he said.
“We could see that something’s going on, that they’re closely connected, that there are sufficient flows,” Polk said, referring to Nansen’s latest report, which takes a deeper look at what may have been happening between the corporate siblings. “But since FTX is a centralized entity, you can’t really see what’s happening inside [and] you can’t really know how much money should be there.”
Read more: Lawyers Detail the ‘Abrupt and Difficult’ Collapse of FTX in First Bankruptcy Hearing
What was evident, said Polk, was that coins were flowing between wallets. Specifically, most of FTX’s native token, FTT, was found in the wallets of the exchange and Alameda, with only a fraction of tokens making it into circulation.
What Nansen suspects is the people responsible for the wallets may have been moving tokens between the two, making the interaction between the two supposedly separate companies closer than any two companies should ever be, according to Polk.
Even Tuesday, during FTX’s day in court, there were still some wallets, holding around $10.7 million worth of FTT tokens, according to Nansen, that remain in limbo.
Read more: FTX Showed the Problems of Centralized Finance, and Proved the Need for DeFi / Opinion
“They’re still lying there today and we don’t know who those wallets belong to,” Polk said, adding that the tokens in some wallets “have never been touched.”
According to the firm’s report, whether FTX issued a loan to Alameda is “not directly visible on-chain” because of FTX’s centralized structure. However, Nansen implies that the $4 billion of FTT tokens Alameda deposited to FTX may have been used as a way to repay loans issued by FTX.
FTX and Alameda’s checkered synergy is “one of the big reasons why we have blockchains,” Polk said, adding that on-chain data is a way to provide “transparent” information to all users."
429,89,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/22/market-wrap-ftx-was-sam-bankman-frieds-personal-fiefdom-lawyers-said/,"Market Wrap: FTX Was Sam Bankman-Fried’s 'Personal Fiefdom,' Lawyers Said","The CoinDesk Market Index, bitcoin and ether were all in the green.",2022-11-22,"FTX lawyers at the company’s first bankruptcy hearing in Delaware detailed its “abrupt and difficult” collapse within the course of two weeks – shortly after CoinDesk’s Ian Allison reported that Alameda Research, a sister company of the FTX crypto exchange, held an unexpectedly large amount of FTT tokens issued by FTX itself.
This article originally appeared in Market Wrap, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
“You have witnessed probably one of the most abrupt and difficult collapses in the history of corporate America,” James Bromley of Sullivan and Cromwell, an attorney representing FTX, explained during the company’s first bankruptcy hearing.
Bromley described the FTX empire – at its height valued at $32 billion – as the “personal fiefdom of Sam Bankman-Fried,” the former CEO of the exchange.
When Bankman-Fried reluctantly relinquished his position to FTX’s new CEO, former Enron cleanup man John Jay Ray III, it allowed those left at the company to, “for the first time, really see under the covers and recognize that the emperor had no clothes,” according to Bromley.
Though Bromley did not identify Bankman-Fried by name, he told the court that FTX “was in the control of a small group of inexperienced and unsophisticated individuals, and unfortunately, the evidence seems to indicate that some or all of them are also compromised individuals.”
There are over 100 different debtors tied to the FTX group that filed for bankruptcy, another attorney said.
Bitcoin (BTC) regained the $16,000 level Tuesday, coinciding with the news that Cathie Wood's Ark Investment Management bought $1.5 million in Grayscale's Bitcoin Trust (GBTC). The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was up 2.4% to $16,100 – after hitting a two-year low of $15,480 Monday. Despite Tuesday’s gain, Julius de Kempenaer, senior technical analyst at StockCharts.com, told CoinDesk that as the market is “in digestion,” it’s possible to see BTC drop further – possibly to the $12,500 level before the end of the year.
Several altcoins also had a strong performance: Ether (ETH) followed a similar trajectory as BTC, and was up roughly 2.6% to $1,120. Solana’s SOL token was up 3% to nearly $12. CRV, the governance token of decentralized exchange Curve, was the top performer of the day among the basket of digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index as the token jumped over 25%, reversing its sharp drop earlier in the day.
Equity markets across the board turned green: U.S. stocks edged up ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday, with the Standard and Poor's 500 Index up 1.3% at closing. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) gained 1.1%, while Nasdaq was up 1.3%.
CRV, the governance token of decentralized exchange Curve, has turned volatile amid a surge in the number of coins held at centralized trading platforms. The token dropped 17% to a two-year low of 40 cents early Tuesday before erasing the losses with a V-shaped recovery.
Saudi Arabia’s non-fungible token (NFT) collection soared after an unexpected soccer win against Argentina in the FIFA World Cup. Sales for the Saudi Arabia-themed NFT collection called “The Saudis” increased 387% on Tuesday. Argentina’s fan token, in contrast, dropped 21% over the past 24 hours and was trading at $5.44 at the time of publication.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at some warning signs we missed from FTX’s collapse.
FTX Bankruptcy Judge Says Creditor Information Can Be Redacted – at Least For Now
Binance's CEO Sows Doubt in Crypto Rival Coinbase and Digital Asset Manager Grayscale – Then Backtracks
Binance CEO Seeking Funds From Middle East Investors for Crypto Recovery Fund: Bloomberg
Genesis Global Capital Has Hired Investment Bank Moelis to Explore Options Including Bankruptcy: New York Times
Mango Exploiter Gets Liquidated After Roiling Aave Using $20M of Borrowed Curve Tokens
Sam Bankman-Fried's Crumbling FTX Empire Holds $1.2B Cash Reserves
Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle
US Senators Ask Fidelity to Reconsider Bitcoin 401(k) Offerings Following FTX Collapse"
430,1088,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/22/foresight-ventures-launches-10m-web3-startup-fund-despite-market-turmoil/,"Foresight Ventures Launches $10M Web3 Startup Fund, in Spite of Market Turmoil",The Singapore-based crypto fund plans to back the development of blockchain projects across global markets.,2022-11-22,"Foresight Ventures (FV), a crypto fund with $400 million in assets under management (AUM), is launching an incubator program called Foresight X. The program will allocate $10 million to three different types of Web3 funding and collaborations.
Two programs have unlimited pools of ecosystem and research grants. The third is an eight-week incubator program for 30 early-stage projects or startups, which includes up to $300,000 in funding. Gitcoin, a crowdfunding platform, will share incentives and partner with FV to build collaborations and mentorships.
“We are particularly interested in projects that offer solutions to help scale [the crypto] industry for mainstream adoption,” Tony Cheng, general partner at Foresight Ventures, said in a press release. The grant application process is scheduled to open at the end of this year.
Prior to the recent downfall of FTX, which is still sending shockwaves throughout the crypto industry, Web3 funding in general had been dropping. There was around $3.3 billion in startup funding in the third quarter of this year, a nearly 50% drop compared with the second quarter, according to Crunchbase data. In 2021, almost $9.3 billion was invested in the final quarter of the year.
Despite the latest tsunami of sobering crypto news and trends, Foresight Ventures considers the period an opportunity to build. “We understand very well that bear markets are periods of massive innovation and growth,” co-founder Forest Bai said in the press release. The program will prioritize projects at every stage of development, “to accelerate” the crypto industry’s evolution.
Established in 2020, Foresight Ventures has invested in Web3, non-fungible token, gaming and decentralized finance (DeFi) projects. Last year, AUM increased to $400 million from $80 million following FV's acquisition of Singapore-based exchange and trading platform, BitGet, and its limited partnership with BitKeep, a multi-chain digital wallet in Asia.
FV launched its first incubation program during CoinDesk’s Consensus 2022 in Austin, Texas. The firm is also a sponsor of the Bitcoin Miami conference.
CORRECTION: An earlier version listed the eight-week incubator program had up to $200,000 in funding, instead of $300,000 and that BitKeep had been acquired instead of an LP."
431,1091,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/22/tornado-cash-developer-alexey-pertsev-to-remain-in-jail-until-at-least-late-februrary/,Tornado Cash Developer Alexey Pertsev to Remain in Jail Until at Least Late Februrary,"Pertsev, a Russian national living in the Netherlands, has been accused of facilitating money laundering by developing the now sanctioned app",2022-11-22,"‘S-HERTOGENBOSCH, Netherlands – Alexey Pertsev has been ordered to stay in jail until Feb. 20 after a Netherlands court found the Tornado Cash developer represented a flight risk.
Pertsev has been held in detention since August, days after the U.S. Treasury used sanction powers against the Tornado protocol, which it said had been used to launder over a billion dollars' worth of cryptocurrencies and to support North Korean hackers.
At the hearing on Tuesday, Dutch public prosecutor Martine Boerlage announced money-laundering charges for the first time. Boerlage had said little more about the case than a press release, but has now accused Pertsev of facilitating the processing of dirty money by writing the Tornado Cash code.
Boerlage brushed aside arguments that Tornado Cash was a decentralized protocol that Pertsev was powerless to control, claiming that it was in fact one and the same as PepperSec, a company Pertsev worked for alongside fellow developers Roman Semenov and Roman Storm.
Outside the courtroom, Pertsev’s lawyer, Keith Cheng, told CoinDesk he was “very disappointed” with the decision.
“It's clear to us that these judges are not as familiar with the subject matter as they should be,” Cheng said. “At the moment, the case law regarding criminal activities is all about bitcoin mixers … It's very important that the court understands that Tornado Cash is something different.”
Pertsev’s arrest and detention has drawn widespread outcry, including protests in Amsterdam and a tweet from Edward Snowden, an American who now lives in Russia after he leaked documents from the National Security Agency, comparing Pertsev’s treatment to the kid gloves afforded to executives at collapsed crypto exchange FTX.
“If you peel everything off, what we have here is a fairly clear-cut money-laundering case,” Boerlage said, citing laws that forbid the concealment of funds’ origin and movement. “That's exactly what a mixing service like Tornado Cash does for you.”
Boerlage compared the vast sums of money deposited into the protocol after the Ronin Bridge hack with a bank clerk unquestioningly accepting a pile of 100 euro notes for deposit.
“If you as a bank don't know where the money is coming from and haven't yet built in any mechanism to look at that, then there’s a considerable likelihood that your service is laundering money,” she said.
Boerlage also denied claims that the software was autonomous, saying that Pertsev and others had de facto control.
That Pertsev “has nothing to do with Tornado Cash, can be relegated to the realm of fantasy,” the prosecutor said. Pertsev, Semenov and Storm may have held so many tokens for the protocol they could in practice ”always outvote everyone else” when it came to decision making, Boerlage added.
Private chats obtained by the prosecutor between the three showed that in practice they made operational decisions about the protocol, and had effectively acknowledged they were involved in “shady stuff” when they discussed tweeting about how to circumvent money-laundering norms, she said.
“PepperSec is Tornado Cash,” Boerlage added, referring to Pertsev’s idea that he could be released to return to his previous employer as long as he declined to work on the protocol.
Cheng, meanwhile, argued that the service had legitimate uses.
“The goal of Tornado Cash is to bring privacy for the user, giving the user control over crypto transactions,” Cheng said. The prosecution had not convincingly demonstrated specific facts linking Pertsev to the alleged crime as required by Dutch and European law, Cheng added.
Pertsev himself spoke little, though, speaking through a Russian interpreter, confirmed his personal details and referred to the online petition and demonstrations that have been held in his support.
“I am ready to accept all restrictions” should he be released on bail, he said, before his request was declined. “I just want to be able to spend Christmas with my wife.”
Read more: US Treasury Adds to Tornado Cash Sanctions With North Korea WMD Allegations
Update (Nov. 22, 2022 14:35 UTC): Adds details throughout article.
Correction (Nov. 23, 2022 13:44 UTC): Corrects final Pertsev quote."
432,218,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/22/who-is-alameda-researchs-caroline-ellison/,Who Is Alameda Research's Caroline Ellison?,The former CEO of Alameda reportedly told staff that the trading firm may have misused FTX client funds. Did she have the power to say no?,2022-11-22,"Former CEO of Alameda Research
Child of MIT economists
Colleague of Sam Bankman-Fried from Jane Street days
The former CEO of Alameda Research, Caroline Ellison, has spent her entire professional career as a trader. While a junior studying math at Stanford University, Ellison took her first of two internships with Jane Street, a Wall Street hedge fund known for its heavy use of algorithms, where she excelled. She put off a one-year master’s degree program to join the firm full time.
“Trading is the biggest thing that allowed me to excel in trading,” Ellison said in an interview for Alameda’s podcast in 2021. For anyone else, the statement would be a tautology, but for the bookish Ellison, who came into crypto as a skeptic, it was never obvious that she’d lead one of the most influential digital asset hedge funds.
See also: Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle
After a year and a half on Jane Street’s equities desk, Ellison made a “lateral” move to Alameda, after meeting her former Jane Street colleague Sam Bankman-Fried for coffee in the Bay area. She has said Bankman-Fried was initially cagey about what Alameda did. She came aboard with “more experience than a lot of Alameda traders at the time,” she said.
Alameda, at its founding, was a market maker for low-liquidity altcoins. It took a market-neutral approach to the industry, but eventually began taking a more participatory role in crypto and increasingly bullish or bearish leveraged bets on specific coins. This includes yield farming on decentralized finance protocols, she said. She had never used the Ethereum wallet MetaMask before DeFi Summer.
While the details are yet unknown, it seems like the cracks in Bankman-Fried’s crypto trading empire appeared first at Alameda following the collapse of the LUNA coin bubble. In a May 25 podcast with Spanish-language El Momento, Ellison now infamously said many of her trades relied on “elementary school math” and gut.
In October 2021, Ellison was appointed as co-CEO of Alameda with Sam Trabucco after Bankman-Fried resigned from the firm in an effort to put distance between the exchange and trading shop he founded. She has described her role as “broad.” Ellison became sole CEO in August, following Trabucco’s departure from the firm.
Like many within the FTX-Alameda orbit, Ellison was an “effective altruist,” or someone who tries to maximize the good they can do by making money and spending it based on supposedly rational calculations. Ellison is thought to be the person behind a blog called “World Optimization,” which covered topics popular in the California Rationalist community including polyamory and race science, Futurism reported.
Until this week, Ellison lived with nine other FTX or Alameda colleagues in Bankman-Fried’s $30 million penthouse in the Bahamas. She reportedly paid SBF rent, and was occasionally in a romantic relationship with him. In 2021, Ellison tweeted about recreational stimulant use.
“Young people tend to be too risk averse,” Ellison said in a more recent Alameda podcast episode.
The Wall Street Journal recently reported that Ellison told Alameda staffers in a video call that she was one of four people aware of the decision to send FTX customer funds to Alameda, to help the fund meet its liabilities. In early November, CoinDesk’s Ian Allison reported that Alameda was structurally insolvent as much of the money it had on hand was illiquid altcoins, particularly FTX’s exchange token, FTT.
Ellison has been a fan of the Harry Potter series since childhood, and has written LARPs (live action role playing games) in her free time. She was reportedly working on writing a novel.
Adding to the intrigue: Ellison’s father, Glenn Ellison, is the Gregory K. Palm Professor of Economics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is the head of the economics department and was in this role when current Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler famously taught an MIT course on blockchain. Her mother, Sara Fischer Ellison, is also an economics department lecturer at the university."
433,725,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/22/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-falls-to-2-year-low-on-renewed-contagion-fears/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Falls to 2-Year Low on Renewed Contagion Fears,"ALSO: Singapore's central bank is under scrutiny over whether Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange received favorable regulatory treatment, Sam Reynolds writes.",2022-11-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin fell to a fresh two-year low as crypto traders speculated over the future of Genesis Global, a victim of the fallout from the recent collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange.
Insights: Singapore's central bank is facing uncomfortable questions about its regulatory treatment of FTX.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Crypto markets are on edge as traders speculate over the fate of yet another victim of the fallout from the collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange.
Genesis Global, a once-mighty crypto trading and lending firm, was reportedly in talks to raise fresh capital after it halted customer withdrawals last week. The case is being closely monitored by digital-asset traders partly because Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group (DCG), which also owns Grayscale Investments, manager of the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), which is the largest publicly traded bitcoin fund. The speculation is that Genesis's financial straits might put DCG in the position of needing to dispose of assets, which under various scenarios might affect GBTC and spill over into the bitcoin market. (CoinDesk is an independent subsidiary of DCG.)
""We expect the DCG/Genesis capital raise will be the big market moving event this week,"" Nauman Sheikh, head of treasury management at Wave Financial. ""A favorable outcome would lead to a market squeeze and an unfavorable outcome has the potential to do some serious damage.""
A Bloomberg report that Genesis had mentioned bankruptcy as a potential option briefly sent bitcoin (BTC) to a fresh two-year low of $15,480, but the price was back to about $15,900 as of press time.
The Wall Street Journal, citing people familiar, reported that Genesis sought funding from Binance and Apollo Global Management, and that Binance declined to invest, citing potential conflicts of interest.
""We have no plans to file bankruptcy imminently,"" a Genesis spokesperson said. ""Our goal is to resolve the current situation consensually without the need for any bankruptcy filing. Genesis continues to have constructive conversations with creditors.""
Mike Dershewitz, head of risk committee at Arca Funds, wrote Monday: ""DCG can also sell off a portion of its Grayscale equity. Assuming $300 million in annual net income, this cash flow stream should be worth at least $2.5 billion, depending on how a would-be investor/buyer values the longevity of this cash-flow stream.""
Singaporean regulators under scrutiny after FTX collapse
The collapse of the FTX exchange forced the Monetary Authority of Singapore last week to address what it characterized as “questions and misperceptions” about its prior regulatory treatment of Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto-trading venue.
One narrative centers on whether FTX received favorable treatment from the island nation’s central bank. Singapore's state investment fund, Temasek, had a $210 million investment in FTX that it has now written off entirely.
A key question is why Binance.sg – an affiliate of Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume – was placed on an Investor Alert List (IAL), while FTX was not.
Recently, the regulator released a 15-point statement addressing the issue. Central to the regulator’s argument is that Binance was actively soliciting Singapore residents, while FTX was not.
Except, this is not entirely the case.
MAS says one of the reasons is that Binance supported the Singapore dollar (SGD) in order to onboard Singapore-based users, and FTX didn’t.
FTX began support for the SGD as an asset class a few weeks before its demise according to a list of supported assets. Users would still have to wire in USD, unlike Binance.SG, which supported local payment gateways.
FTX-owned Liquid also supports the StraitsX XSGD stablecoin to, in the words of the exchange, “better serve our Singapore trading community.”
MAS also said that Binance solicited Singaporean users because of advertising campaigns directed at them.
And yet FTX did the same.
Token 2049, a major crypto conference that took place in the halcyon days of September 2022, counted FTX as one of its sponsors. The exchange’s logo-adorned swag was visible throughout the venue to anyone in attendance.
Days after the Token 2049 conference was the Singapore Formula 1 Grand Prix, which saw the FTX-sponsored Mercedes-AMG Petronas team compete – complete with the exchange’s logos available on the car and drivers’ hats for everyone to see.
It wasn’t too long ago that MAS put DeFiance Capital on the same list without giving much of a reason. While the inclusion on the list doesn’t necessarily mean there was legal impropriety, DeFiance Capital officials said they were flummoxed by the decision.
1:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(5:30 UTC) Canada Retail Sales (MoM/Sept)
10:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(14:00 UTC) Australia's S&P Global Manufacturing PMI (Nov)
1:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(17:00 UTC) New Zealand Reserve Bank Monetary Policy Statement
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Owes Its Largest Creditor $226M; More Than 50% of Bitcoin Addresses Are Now in Loss
Court documents filed over the weekend reveal FTX owes an estimated one million creditors about $3.1 billion collectively. ""First Mover"" has the latest in the FTX case. Dragonfly Capital partner Tom Schmidt shared his outlook on crypto winter from a venture capitalist's perspective. Nauman Sheikh of Wave Financial provided his markets analysis. And the Moskowitz law firm managing partner Adam Moskowitz explaind his firm's class-action lawsuit against some celebrities who endorsed FTX.
Crypto Exchange Coinbase Shares Sink to All-Time Low: The most prominent U.S. crypto exchange went public in April 2021 in a high-profile listing, but shares have lost nearly 90% of their value over the past year, with the FTX contagion causing the latest leg down.
Kenya Proposes Bill to Tax Crypto: Roughly 8.5% of the African country's population owns cryptocurrencies, according to a United Nations report.
More Than 50% of Bitcoin Addresses Are Now in Loss: Previous bear markets ended with the majority of addresses being out of the money, on-chain data shows.
FTX Japan Preparing to Allow Withdrawals by Year End, Report: The payment system for withdrawals is still suspended for now.
FTX Exploiter Transfers $200M in Ether to 12 Crypto Wallets: The exploiter had previously drained hundreds of millions of digital assets from FTX on the same day as the embattled crypto exchange filed for bankruptcy protection."
434,780,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/22/nft-marketplace-magic-eden-expands-support-for-polygon-based-nfts/,NFT Marketplace Magic Eden Expands Support for Polygon-Based NFTs,The leading Solana NFT platform will welcome a new community of Web3 gaming developers and publishers on the Polygon network.,2022-11-22,"Cross-chain NFT marketplace Magic Eden will now support Polygon-based non-fungible tokens (NFT), embracing a new ecosystem of creators and developers, the company said Tuesday.
Magic Eden, which currently supports Solana and Ethereum-based NFTs, will usher in gaming communities by integrating collectibles minted on the layer 2 blockchain network. The chain is supported by Web3 gaming publishers such as Atari, Decentraland, The Sandbox and more.
Polygon has also recently forged partnerships with fintech companies Stripe and Robinhood, as well as software company Adobe, highlighting its use cases across Web2 and Web3 companies.
Zhuoxun Yin, co-founder and chief operating officer of Magic Eden, said in a press release that Polygon’s low fees and EVM compatibility make it an ideal network to support developers in implementing these digital assets into their games.
“We can invest, launch collections, power in-game activity and drive user acquisition for developers building on Polygon with Magic Eden,” Yin said in a press release.
To achieve these goals, Magic Eden will roll out a launchpad and marketplace to support Web3 game publishers building on Polygon using its native MATIC token.
Magic Eden’s expansion comes as the NFT community continues to debate the importance of creator royalties. Last month, the popular platform switched to a royalty-optional model, leading to a temporary dip in trading volumes. The integration of Polygon NFTs may help bring more trading volume back to the platform despite mixed sentiments about dropping royalty payments.
The Solana network was also hit by the FTX collapse, as former CEO Sam-Bankman Fried was a significant backer of the SOL cryptocurrency that put Magic Eden on the map. The price of SOL has fallen almost 58% in the past month, making the case for adding additional blockchain networks to the NFT platform."
435,1086,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/11/22/crypto-custodian-aegis-trust-offers-25m-insurance-policy-for-nfts/,Crypto Custodian Aegis Trust Offers $25M Insurance Policy for NFTs,"The policy, provided by insurance marketplace Lloyd’s of London, will protect institutional investors’ NFTs.",2022-11-22,"Crypto custodian Aegis Trust is offering an insurance policy for non-fungible tokens (NFT), the company said Tuesday.
The policy, provided by insurance marketplace Lloyd’s of London, will allow Aegis to insure up to $25 million for tokenized assets held by institutional investors, hedge funds and exchanges.
As the NFT market continues to ride out an extended crypto winter, digital asset insurance remains a topic of discussion. In March, insurance company IMA set up its office in Decentraland to offer protection for tokenized assets. And in the wake of crypto exchange FTX’s collapse, there appears to be heightened interest in keeping digital assets safe.
Serra Wei, CEO of Aegis Trust, told CoinDesk that lack of regulation and protection has led customers to lose their assets and prompted the company to roll out a custodial product targeting NFTs. Aegis currently offers a fully customizable white-label solution to build a complete custodial NFT Marketplace
“We are focusing on the security of the infrastructure. And that's really fundamental for institutions, which are still the majority of the value that has come into the crypto market,” Wei told CoinDesk. “Being able to put that layer on top of what we already offer to clients I think is critical.”
In August, the company teamed up with Coinbase Cloud to provide custody and staking for Evmos (the EVM hub launched on Cosmos) and Avalanche.
Over the past years, the company has continued to scale its asset custody and digitization offerings with regulation in mind. In December 2020, Aegis Trust obtained regulatory approval from the South Dakota Division of Banking to establish its trust. Institutional custody firms BitGo and Anchorage earned the status to operate in the same state.
Correction (22:02 UTC 11/28/22): Corrects description of Aegis services."
436,298,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/22/sam-bankman-frieds-crumbling-ftx-empire-holds-12b-cash-reserves/,Sam Bankman-Fried's Crumbling FTX Empire Holds $1.2B Cash Reserves,The bankrupt crypto exchange FTX owes around $3.1 billion to its top 50 creditors.,2022-11-22,"The various divisions of Sam Bankman-Fried's crumbling set of companies have $1.2 billion in cash as of Nov. 20, far below the $3.1 billion it owes its top 50 creditors, court documents show.
About $751 million of that is held in debtor entities and the rest, $488 million, is in non-debtor entities, according to the document, filed on Monday by FTX's proposed financial advisor, Alvarez & Marsal North America. About $514 million is unrestricted cash, $260 million is custodial and $465 million is restricted cash, which is earmarked for specific purposes like loan repayments and can't be use for general business purposes.
Crypto exchange FTX fell from grace over the past couple of weeks after CoinDesk's revelation that a big chunk of sister company Alameda Research's assets were the crypto exchange's tokens. The exchange filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in U.S. courts on Nov. 11 in chaotic fashion, mislabeling that some companies under the FTX umbrella were also filing for bankruptcy protection. It may have more than 1 million creditors, and owes the 50 largest about $3.1 billion, according to another court filing.
Read More: Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle
Alameda Research has the largest reserve of cash out of the various entities at $393 million, while FTX Japan has the largest reserve of cash at $171 million of firms under the FTX silo. The Japanese crypto exchange has reportedly said it is preparing to restart withdrawals by the end of the year.
Another filing showed the complicated corporate structure of SBF's 100 or so companies, most of which he was a majority owner of. The parent company of FTX was in Antigua, according to the document, not the crypto exchange's stated headquarters location of the Bahamas.
The disgraced exchange has also been criticized by its new CEO, John J. Ray III, who has previously supervised financial scandals such as Enron. Ray called out the poor record-keeping and the lack of experience among senior managers, as well as the use of company funds to purchase real estate in the Bahamas.
Read more: Pension Giant Ontario Teachers' Plans to Write Off All $95 Million Invested in Crypto Exchange FTX
UPDATE (Nov. 22, 06:55 UTC): Adds additional background, updates embedded image."
437,935,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/22/binances-ceo-sows-doubt-in-crypto-rival-coinbase-and-digital-asset-manager-grayscale-then-backtracks/,Binance's CEO Sows Doubt in Crypto Rival Coinbase and Digital Asset Manager Grayscale – Then Backtracks,Changpeng Zhao quickly deleted a tweet that called the companies' disclosures into question.,2022-11-22,"Battles between crypto exchange titans has driven much of this month's chaos in the industry. The latest salvo from Binance's CEO appears to have been inaccurate.
On Tuesday, Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao stepped into one of the biggest worries of the moment: doubts among some observers that Grayscale, operator of the biggest bitcoin trust, actually holds all the bitcoin it says it does. Grayscale, which – like CoinDesk – is owned by Digital Currency Group, has said those concerns are unwarranted. And Grayscale has been backed up by its partner Coinbase, the exchange that holds the bitcoin.
But Zhao tweeted numbers that, if they were true, would undermine Grayscale and Coinbase's position. ""Just stating 'news reports,' not making any claims,"" he wrote in the now-deleted tweet.
Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong appeared to respond soon after on Twitter: ""If you see FUD out there – remember, our financials are public (we're a public company),"" referring to crypto parlance for fear, uncertainty and doubt. (Binance is a privately held company that doesn't disclose financial information.)
Minutes later, Zhao deleted his original tweet, saying: ""Brian Armstrong just told me"" the numbers ""are wrong."" He added: ""Let’s work together to improve transparency in the industry.""
Zhao also played a central role this month the collapse of crypto exchange giant FTX. After a Nov. 2 CoinDesk story spurred doubts about the financial stability of Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire, Zhao announced that he was selling the FTX token that the CoinDesk story talked about. That triggered a panic that led FTX into bankruptcy."
438,287,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/22/the-whos-who-of-the-ftx-inner-circle/,Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle,Subtitle not found,2022-11-22,"The downfall of FTX was swift and brutal. In a matter of eight days earlier this month, the crypto exchange – developed as a skunk-work project inside Sam Bankman-Fried’s quant-driven trading shop, Alameda Research – went from being one of the most used and valuable crypto companies ever to a pile of failed bets and worthless tokens.
How exactly the firm collapsed is still a matter of investigation. Three U.S. federal agencies – the Department of Justice, Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity and Futures Trading Commission – are probing the remains while insiders begin to speak out about a company that rose and fell like a house of cards.
FTX’s new chief executive, John Ray III, has said Bankman-Fried’s crypto trading empire is the biggest “failure of corporate controls” he’s seen – a notable statement considering Ray helped unravel the Enron scandal and to get its investors paid. Upwards of one million FTX customers have lost funds, according to bankruptcy filings.
While not conclusively proven, it seems that FTX client money was being gambled by Alameda traders. That could have been standard operating procedure for years between the two closely linked firms, or part of a poorly planned scheme to patch holes in the hedge fund’s balance sheet that emerged in the market downturn earlier this year.
And that’s just it: As the story continues to develop, the world is none the wiser about the motivations behind crypto’s most significant collapse since Mt. Gox. Is Sam Bankman-Fried, the disheveled, media-hungry founder, a sociopath, as some are beginning to say? Or a product of a worldview called effective altruism, which might encourage people to lie, cheat or steal their way to a fortune – so long as it’s for a good cause?
There were red flags along the way. Brian Armstrong, surveying the wreckage, has said he was always curious about Bankman-Fried’s burn rate, considering the relative size of FTX and Armstrong’s own crypto exchange, Coinbase. Then there’s the warning signs in FTX’s accounting – including signs of tax avoidance and misappropriation (to say nothing of Prager Metis, FTX’s sketchy auditing firm with an office in Decentraland).
See also: What Investors and Accountants Missed in FTX's Audits
What about the fact that FTX’s C-Suite was composed of mostly inexperienced friends of Bankman-Fried? CoinDesk, which kick-started the FTX fall with a terse story about Alameda’s illiquid assets, has since reported that FTX was primarily controlled by an inner-circle of close associates. Not much is known about the group – made worse as members take steps to delete their social media accounts.
By and large, SBF’s inner circle were all adherents of effective altruism. They lived closely together, in Bahamian property owned by FTX and Bankman-Fried, and formed romantic relationships. Some may have been clued in about a so-called backdoor between FTX and Alameda, which allowed client funds to be transferred without leaving a trace.
CoinDesk has gathered what information is available about these individuals, which includes childhood friends of Bankman-Fried and recent hires. Not everyone listed will be implicated in what looks like fraud, but as high-level operators they should do what they can to make sure the full story is told.
Former CEO of Alameda Research
Child of MIT economists
Colleague of Sam Bankman-Fried from Jane Street days
The former CEO of Alameda Research, Caroline Ellison, has spent her entire professional career as a trader. While a junior studying math at Stanford University, Ellison took her first of two internships with Jane Street, a Wall Street hedge fund known for its heavy use of algorithms, where she excelled. She put off a one-year master’s degree program to join the firm full time.
“Trading is the biggest thing that allowed me to excel in trading,” Ellison said in an interview for Alameda’s podcast in 2021. For anyone else, the statement would be a tautology, but for the bookish Ellison, who came into crypto as a skeptic, it was never obvious that she’d lead one of the most influential digital asset hedge funds.
After a year and a half on Jane Street’s equities desk, Ellison made a “lateral” move to Alameda, after meeting her former Jane Street colleague Sam Bankman-Fried for coffee in the Bay area. She has said Bankman-Fried was initially cagey about what Alameda did. She came aboard with “more experience than a lot of Alameda traders at the time,” she said.
See also: Who Is Alameda Research's Caroline Ellison?
Alameda, at its founding, was a market maker for low-liquidity altcoins. It took a market-neutral approach to the industry, but eventually began taking a more participatory role in crypto and increasingly bullish or bearish leveraged bets on specific coins. This includes yield farming on decentralized finance protocols, she said. She had never used the Ethereum wallet MetaMask before DeFi Summer.
While the details are yet unknown, it seems like the cracks in Bankman-Fried’s crypto trading empire appeared first at Alameda following the collapse of the LUNA coin bubble. In a May 25 podcast with Spanish-language El Momento, Ellison now infamously said many of her trades relied on “elementary school math” and gut.
In October 2021, Ellison was appointed as co-CEO of Alameda with Sam Trabucco after Bankman-Fried resigned from the firm in an effort to put distance between the exchange and trading shop he founded. She has described her role as “broad.” Ellison became sole CEO in August, following Trabucco’s departure from the firm.
Like many within the FTX-Alameda orbit, Ellison was an “effective altruist,” or someone who tries to maximize the good they can do by making money and spending it based on supposedly rational calculations. Ellison is thought to be the person behind a blog called “World Optimization,” which covered topics popular in the California Rationalist community including polyamory and race science, Futurism reported.
Until this week, Ellison lived with nine other FTX or Alameda colleagues in Bankman-Fried’s $30 million penthouse in the Bahamas. She reportedly paid SBF rent, and was occasionally in a romantic relationship with him. In 2021, Ellison tweeted about recreational stimulant use.
“Young people tend to be too risk averse,” Ellison said in a more recent Alameda podcast episode.
The Wall Street Journal recently reported that Ellison told Alameda staffers in a video call that she was one of four people aware of the decision to send FTX customer funds to Alameda, to help the fund meet its liabilities. In early November, CoinDesk’s Ian Allison reported that Alameda was structurally insolvent as much of the money it had on hand was illiquid altcoins, particularly FTX’s exchange token, FTT.
See also: More Than 50% of Bitcoin Addresses Are Now in Loss
Ellison has been a fan of the Harry Potter series since childhood, and has written LARPs (live action role playing games) in her free time. She was reportedly working on writing a novel.
Adding to the intrigue: Ellison’s father, Glenn Ellison, is the Gregory K. Palm Professor of Economics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is the head of the economics department and was in this role when current Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler famously taught an MIT course on blockchain. Her mother, Sara Fischer Ellison, is also an economics department lecturer at the university.
An early hire at Alameda
Appointed to director of engineering, who worked under Chief Technology Officer Gary Wang
Best friend to SBF’s brother in high school
Nishad Singh joined Alameda Research in the early days, when the five-person trading firm was based in a Berkeley, California, apartment. He went from finding and exploiting arbitrage opportunities in crypto markets to being appointed director of engineering at FTX.
Singh is thought to be a close confidant of Bankman-Fried, having shared multiple apartments with the FTX founder over the years, including most recently a 10-person luxury penthouse in Nassau, the Bahamas.
He is rumored to be just one of three people who controlled the keys to the exchange’s matching engine, and may have been informed of a plan to backstop losses at Alameda with FTX customer funds.
Singh did not return a request for comment for this article. Although his LinkedIn profile is down and his Twitter account locked, the University of California, Berkeley graduate talked about why he left his dream job at Facebook to join Alameda Research in a FTX podcast.
""I spent maybe about a month doing weekends and nights at Alameda,” he said, discussing a period of time when his “day job” was as a software engineer working on applied machine learning at Facebook. “At some point, it became obvious that was kind of stupid … so I took some time off and really gave my 100% working at Alameda,"" Singh said.
Singh visited Alameda in the first month of its existence, where he witnessed Bankman-Fried execute a sequence of trades that he described as ""super profitable, easy to understand and there were lots available."" Feeling inspired, he took a job.
In the podcast, Singh said he was also attracted to the company's cultural commitment to effective altruism, a movement that ""aims to find the best ways to help others,"" which he discovered in college. He is a board member of FTX Future Fund, a part of the FTX Foundation, a philanthropic collective funded principally by Bankman-Fried and other senior FTX executives.
""It was pretty clear that everybody working [at Alameda] was highly motivated, was sort of effective altruism-aligned, which mattered a lot to me and was really [a] bright spot. I could learn a lot from them,"" Singh said in the podcast.
After spending one and a half years as a core Alameda engineer, Singh took a role as the head of engineering at the then-newly launched FTX derivative exchange in 2019, where he was allowed to code with “minimal supervision.” He has provided code to a number of Bankman-Fried-related projects, including the decentralized exchange Serum on Solana.
“Nishad was one of my brother’s best friends in high school. He’s shown the fastest and most sustained professional growth I’ve ever witnessed,” Bankman-Fried wrote in a company blog. Singh also reportedly built most of FTX’s “technological infrastructure” and managed the development team.
Although pitched as a community-run and- organized exchange, people familiar with the matter told CoinDesk the true power over Serum rested with FTX Group, which then held the program’s access keys. A similar relationship may be in place at FTX’s core properties.
Singh is reportedly now ""under supervision"" by Bahamian authorities along with Bankman-Fried and Wang.
Former co-CEO of Alameda Research
One of the firm's first hires, who oversaw the development of ever-riskier trading strategies
Retired in early 2022
When Sam Trabucco stepped down as co-CEO of trading firm Alameda Research in August, he tweeted, ""But if I've learned anything at Alameda, it's how to make good decisions – and this is the right one for me.""
In hindsight, it seems like impeccable timing for Trabucco to quit a high-stress job to spend time on his newly purchased boat – mere months before the company would go under water.
It only took 10 days for Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire to go from processing withdrawals, albeit slowly, to declaring bankruptcy. This followed a CoinDesk report in November showing that, for all intents and purposes, Alameda Research, which had $8 billion of liabilities and $14.6 billion in assets, was insolvent.
See also: Who Is Alameda's Former co-CEO Sam Trabucco?
The hedge fund Trabucco ran likely came to own many of its illiquid altcoins during his tenure. This includes the inexplicably large amount of FTT, the exchange token for Alameda’s sister company, FTX.
Trabucco joined Alameda as a trader in 2019 after a stint as a quant trader on Susquehanna International Group’s bond desk. He was appointed co-CEO in October 2021 with Caroline Ellison, after his friend-cum-boss Bankman-Fried resigned in an attempt to distance the SBF-owned trading firm from the SBF-controlled trading platform.
“He is not really involved in day-to-day operations in Alameda. Caroline and I have been leading the charge there for quite some time,” Trabucco told CoinDesk at the time.
Trabucco met Bankman-Fried during a five week math camp at Mount Holyoke College in 2010, according to Insider. He recalled that Bankman-Fried barely slept during their stay. The two reunited at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Trabucco received his bachelor’s degrees in math and computer science.
As co-CEO, Trabucco helped oversee Alameda’s expansion beyond its initial market-neutral, but relatively low-profit business as a market maker for low-volume cryptocurrencies into riskier trading strategies, according to a Twitter thread detailing that shift. For instance, he said Alameda traders began exploring yield farming in decentralized finance (DeFi).
Eventually, according to Trabucco’s account, the trading firm began taking in “huge” profits placing highly leveraged bets on assets like dogecoin after noticing its price went up whenever Elon Musk tweeted about the meme coin.
Although the full story is not yet known, emerging evidence suggests Alameda suffered a series of losses during the beginning of the crypto market downturn. Ellison did not include Trabucco among a list of named persons who knew about the decision to send customer funds to Alameda, as reported by the Wall Street Journal.
In August, Trabucco announced his resignation and became an adviser of the company. On Nov. 8, when FTX agreed to sell itself to Binance, Trabucco tweeted, ""Much love to everyone,"" and that he ""hope[d] the road ahead is brighter.""
Trabucco did not return a request for comment for this article.
The co-founder of Alameda Research and FTX
A mysterious ex-Googler who also served as chief technology officer for both firms
Reportedly Bankman-Fried’s childhood friend
Gary Wang is not like his co-founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who loves fame and putting himself at the center of public attention (even when people are begging him to stop tweeting). In fact, there’s little public information about Wang, who has been described as a shady but critical player in the rise and fall of FTX.
Wang met Bankman-Fried at a math camp in high school. Later, they became college roommates at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Wang got degrees in mathematics and computer science and Bankman-Fried received a bachelor's in physics.
Before co-founding Alameda Research (and later FTX), Wang worked at Google. He claims to have built a system to aggregate prices across public flight data, according to an introduction on the Future Fund's website. When Bankman-Fried left the Jane Street Hedge Fund to start Alameda in 2017, Wang left the tech giant.
See also: Who Is Gary Wang, the Mysterious Co-Founder of FTX and Alameda?
The startup has its beginnings in a three-bedroom Berkeley apartment – the downstairs served as its office. The firm shifted to Hong Kong, in part to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities in Asian bitcoin markets – including the price discrepancy between BTC in Japan and BTC everywhere else.
It’s there that Wang and Bankman-Fried funneled funds from Alameda to build its bespoke derivatives exchange. Bankman-Fried told Insider that he is not a good coder: ""I don't code. I'm trash. I have not written any of FTX's code base. That's all a lot of other really impressive people at FTX. That's not me at all.""
Nishad Singh, the head of engineering at FTX, said Wang was a ""really good mentor"" who offered suggestions and advice to push things out on short timescales.
In the aftermath of FTX’s collapse, and the subsequent $400 million hack, questions are circulating around who could possibly have abused client funds. Wang is a prominent suspect, as one of the few people with ""root access"" to the exchange’s code base, according to The Block.
Wang is also one of the board members of FTX Future Fund – the charity guided by “effective altruism” that aims to ""use reason and evidence to do the most good possible for the most people.""
Wang, one of the 10 roommates in Bankman-Fried’ luxury penthouse in the Bahamas, is reportedly among the four people cited by Caroline Ellison who knew about the decision to send customer funds to Alameda, according to people who spoke to the Wall Street Journal.
A few Wang photos are circulating on the internet, though little else is known about the mysterious co-founder who preferred to stay in the shadows as SBF chased the limelight. In a now infamous picture on FTX’s website, CTO Wang is seen with his back facing the camera as he focuses on the monitors in front of him.
At the age of 28, Wang topped Forbes' 2022 list of the world's billionaires under 30 with a net worth of $5.9 billion in April. SBF sent his congratulations to Wang in public, tweeting that ""I couldn't be prouder"" when the list came out.
A chief architect of effective altruism
Mentor of Sam Bankman-Fried
Philosophy professor at Oxford
As the world picks through the wreckage of the collapsed crypto exchange FTX and its sister trading firm Alameda Research, scrutiny has fallen largely on founder Sam Bankman-Fried and his close circle of allies. But one hugely important figure in the immense financial catastrophe was never a part of Bankman-Fried’s corporate leadership circle: the 35-year-old Scottish philosopher William MacAskill.
Instead, MacAskill is the thinker perhaps most associated with the moral philosophy known as “effective altruism,” which was profoundly influential on Bankman-Fried, Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison and others in their intimate circle. MacAskill is currently an associate professor in philosophy and a research fellow at the Global Priorities Institute at England’s University of Oxford. He is the author of several books, including a 2016 introduction to effective altruism called “Doing Good Better” and a recent follow up called “What We Owe the Future.”
Those books, and MacAskill’s broader body of work, may be due for a reassessment after the FTX debacle. Some have argued that MacAskill’s ethical views helped nudge Bankman-Fried to take the risks that ultimately led to the implosion of the Alameda/FTX empire. And according to people, including one of Bankman-Fried’s most prominent financial backers, MacAskill wasn’t just a philosophical influencer: He played a direct role in guiding Bankman-Fried along the path that led to the creation, and ultimately implosion, of Alameda Research and the FTX exchange.
See also: Who Is William MacAskill, the Oxford Philosopher Who Shaped Sam Bankman-Fried’s Worldview?
After Bankman-Fried established the philanthropic Future Fund, MacAskill became an adviser, helping distribute funds for maximum impact. After the collapse of Alameda and FTX, MacAskill announced that he had resigned, saying the role had been unpaid. Staff of the Future Fund have also resigned, announcing that many grants already promised to organizations will now go unfulfilled because of the blowup.
While many moral systems maintain that human suffering could be best alleviated by spreading both wealth and power more democratically, effective altruism essentially argues the opposite: that the very smartest and hardest-working individuals should pursue wealth and influence, then leverage it to the greater good. Many if not most members of Bankman-Fried’s inner circle professed effective altruist beliefs. According to a recent profile of MacAskill in the New Yorker, effective altruists worldwide now control roughly $30 billion in philanthropic funds.
According to a fawning profile of Bankman-Fried published by Sequoia Capital, MacAskill had a direct and sizable influence on the founder’s worldview from very early on. (Sequoia has long been one of the most respected venture capital funds in Silicon Valley, and invested a reported $210 million in FTX. It has since written the investment down to zero – and deleted the profile of Bankman-Fried from its website.)
MacAskill, according to the Sequoia profile, was introduced to SBF through MIT’s Epsilon Theta, the “coed fraternity of supergeeks” through which many future members of the FTX leadership circle first connected. That led to a coffee meeting in which MacAskill pitched effective altruism to Bankman-Fried, years before SBF founded the crypto exchange.
During that initial meeting, MacAskill reportedly urged Bankman-Fried to adopt an “earn to give” approach to life. That mindset could be easily mistaken for a moral license to bend the rules, especially by someone who, like Sam Bankman-Fried, “would never read a book.”
But MacAskill’s influence was not merely to give Bankman-Fried an all-too-wobbly ethical framework. Also according to the Sequoia profile, it was MacAskill who suggested Bankman-Fried pursue an internship at the trading firm Jane Street, rather than more directly public-spirited options Bankman-Fried was considering, such as becoming a journalist or entering politics directly. Jane Street became a stepping stone that led directly to the creation, and ultimately downfall, of Alameda Research and FTX.
The global effective altruism community even reportedly played a direct role in the “kimchi premium” trade that is believed to have generated the capital for the creation of FTX. Again according to the Sequoia profile, a Japanese effective altruist helped Bankman-Fried set up the Japanese banking needed to arbitrage the premium on the price of bitcoin in South Korea.
See also: Why Bitcoin Needs Philosophy | Opinion
Bankman-Fried’s behavior, which increasingly appears to have included not just mismanagement but substantial fraud, has triggered a wave of vexed soul-searching in the effective altruism community. But critics of MacAskill’s ideas have for years insisted they founder on basic questions, such as: Who determines the right people to (altruistically) pursue wealth and influence? The answer would seem to be a hyper-capitalist tautology: The people who make the most money are inherently the most deserving, because they’re the smartest and therefore also know the best ways to improve the world.
An implicit version of this type of “altruism” was arguably baked into the “change the world” narratives that for a time fueled excitement around tech companies like Facebook (now Meta). That isn't a surprise: This philosophical frame is an ideal way to make boatloads of money doing things like selling user data without having to feel bad about it, as long as you give a lot of the money away. In practice, that’s not so different from the charitable efforts of old-school robber barons like John D. Rockefeller.
To his credit, MacAskill wrote in the aftermath of the collapse that “if those involved deceived others and engaged in fraud … they entirely abandoned the principles of the effective altruism community.” He also seems to have taken his principles more seriously than many of his adherents. According to the New Yorker profile, in his youth MacAskill cut his own expenses to the bone so he could donate money to help people in need, to the point of relying on homemade bread for his dinners.
But that more onerous side of the effective altruism seems fairly flexible for some, including Bankman-Fried: a luxury penthouse in the Bahamas shared with 10 friends is, after all, still a luxury penthouse in the Bahamas.
FTX’s product lead
Sometimes called SBF’s “key lieutenant”
A former Facebook engineer
Ramnik Arora was one of FTX’s most high-profile hires in a period of rapid expansion before the crypto exchange’s quick unraveling in November. The head of product, sometimes called Sam Bankman-Fried’s “key lieutenant,” was “plucked out of obscurity from Meta Platforms in 2020, according to tech news site The Information.
In addition to overseeing the rollout of new products at the exchange, Arora was key to FTX’s investor relations. He reportedly served as a conduit to the venture capital giant Sequoia Capital, which invested in FTX’s Series B funding round and advocated for Bankman-Fried. The firm was valued at $32 billion, before it unraveled.
The Information, citing internal sources, also said Arora played a large role on the opposite side of investor relations at FTX, and helped close a number of venture deals Bankman-Fried and his exchange made into crypto startups. He was a general partner at FTX Ventures, where he helped close rounds with Aptos, LayerZero and Coral.
In a now-notable scene from Bankman-Fried’s fundraising salad days, Arora said he had caught the CEO playing a video game while giving a “well-received presentation.”
“The entire partner meeting, he was playing League of Legends at the same time,” Arora told The New York Times in April.
Arora has a master’s degree in mathematics and computer science from the Indian Institute of Technology, New York University and Stanford. Before joining Facebook (since renamed Meta), he held various roles at IV Capital and Goldman Sachs.
He founded his own venture fund called Toy Ventures, initially seeded with his own and his friends' capital, he said in an interview with Encode Club, a Web3 education channel. He said this business was built up gradually in an “ad hoc” fashion.
In that same interview, Arora said he thought of FTX as an exchange built for “crypto natives” and that part of his mandate was making it a friendly on-ramp for retail investors. This included “obfuscating” the things that make crypto hard, by improving its UX (user experience) and interface.
“Any friction in the process will have a huge drop-off,” he said, adding that he often listened to Crypto Twitter to get a sense of the products in which people would be interested, such as future non-fungible token (NFT) integrations. Compared with his time at Facebook, Arora said the speed of FTX’s product development was its “superpower,” he said.
“We can move on a dime,” Arora said, adding later that its “blockers” were “regulatory,” like figuring out the frameworks and licenses he would need to apply for to launch new services.
Arora is known for his intense work ethic, which may explain his close relationship with Bankman-Fried, who was known to have slept only five hours a day – often on a bean bag chair near his office desk. In the Encore interview, Arora talks about working 20-hour days and said he has decided with his wife that work should take precedence in their lives for the time being.
“It is not a balanced work-life balance,” he said.
FTX’s chief compliance officer
A lawyer implicated in an online poker-cheating scandal
Daniel S. Friedberg was the chief compliance officer at FTX, the person who oversaw the then-second-largest cryptocurrency exchange’s compliance initiatives before it imploded. He joined the firm in March 2020.
Friedberg has also been tied to an online poker scandal in 2008, where Ultimate Bet’s founder Russ Hamilton was accused of installing a “God mode” on his gambling platform that only certain players had access to – resulting in an estimated $50 million in misappropriated funds.
In a surreptitiously recorded file, Friedberg reportedly advised Hamilton to claim he was a victim of the Ultimate Bets ""God mode"" scam, and push blame on an unnamed consultant to the company who exploited the site’s servers. The audio recordings were published in 2013 under uncertain circumstances and have not been independently verified by CoinDesk.
“I did take this money and I’m not trying to make it right, Dan, so we gotta get that out of the way right away, real quick,” Hamilton allegedly said in the audio recording. Hamilton also founded the World Champion online poker platform.
Veteran short seller Marc Cohodes, one of the few to publicly question the rapid rise of FTX before its fall in a September interview with trading-focused webcast Hedgeye, had noted the potential conflicts of hiring someone connected to a cheating scandal to oversee compliance at the $32 billion FTX exchange.
See also: Sam Bankman-Fried Switches Legal Counsel
In August, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) sent a letter to Friedberg and then-FTX US CEO Brett Harrison to “cease and desist” using marketing language that could have been erroneously interpreted as saying that exchange users accounts were ensured by the federal banking regulator.
Before joining FTX, Friedberg was a partner at Fenwick & West LLP, where he led the law firm’s cryptocurrency division, according to a now-deprecated LinkedIn page. He received a JD and MBA degree from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Co-CEO of FTX’s Bahamian subsidiary, FTX Digital Markets
A key player in FTX’s global licensing strategy
A restauranteur for Lenox hospitality
At press time, Ryan Salame is one of the few upper-level FTX executives who has not made attempts to delete his internet history. His Twitter and Linkedin accounts are still accessible, for instance, though they have yet to be updated to reflect he has left the firm.
Salame, a 2015 graduate from the University of Massachusetts–Amherst, was co-CEO of FTX Digital Markets, the Bahamas-based holding company for much of the crypto exchange’s global footprint. He also held a CPA license in Massachusetts that expired in 2018. He earned a master’s degree in finance from Georgetown University.
According to people speaking to the Wall Street Journal, Salame allegedly vomited after learning of the depths of deception at FTX, including how the firm’s inner circle misused and lost client funds. He told the WSJ he is not part of that inner circle.
Salame joined FTX in 2019 from the stablecoin issuer Circle Internet Financial, and before that served as a senior tax accountant at Ernst & Young (EY). On his LinkedIn page he claims to have assisted Bankman-Fried incorporate the recently built exchange as FTX Trading Ltd.
Before being appointed co-CEO of FDM, Salame had spent two years as Alameda Research’s head of OTC [over-the-counter] for the Asia-Pacific region, while based in Hong Kong.
Salame also apparently has ownership in a number of restaurants through a partnership with Lenox Eats. Among those is “a food truck with a flexible ‘pop up’ style menu” called Lunch Pail, which was expected to open in 2022.
Just as Bankman-Fried has become known for his political donations, Salame was also a mega-donor. He had donated $20,367,000 to Republican candidates in 2022, according to OpenSecrets. That makes him the 15th largest donor overall for this past U.S. election cycle.
The chief operating officer of FTX
A former compliance staffer at Credit Suisse
Appointed co-CEO of FTX Digital Markets
In the days since FTX exploded, Constance Wang has come under fire for her seeming lack of experience. Indeed, the National University of Singapore graduate – class of 2015 – has a fairly short resume: a Singapore-based Credit Suisse analyst turned business development lead at Huobi who caught the express train to wealth by joining FTX in 2019.
“Constance Wang, the COO of FTX, is an ex-Credit Suisse analyst with [two] years of experience in risk management. It was her first job out of university,” venture capitalist Ana Mostarac tweeted.
As chief operating officer, Wang said she was “primarily responsible for global user growth, partnerships, [public relations and] marketing, institutional clients servicing, and global expansion operations,” as written on her LinkedIn.
In January, 2022, Wang was appointed co-chief executive officer of FTX Digital Markets, the Bahamian licensing structure that held much of FTX’s businesses.
According to CoinDesk, Wang had lived in Sam Bankman-Fried’s 10-person crash pad in the Bahamas. She has since resigned from the company.
The FTX chief financial officer
A hire from Bankman-Fried’s Hong Kong days
The full owner of an FTX subsidiary
Jen Chan was the chief financial officer of FTX – and perhaps the only direct report to Sam Bankman-Fried who had any direct work experience in the area of the business she oversaw.
Between 2003 and 2006, Chan was an assistant manager at KPMG, the auditing firm. She then had a multi-year stint at Blackstone, serving at a director level for its investing and accounting business.
Immediately before joining FTX, Cha"
,,,,,,
439,1085,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/23/mansplaining-your-way-through-the-crypto-crash-at-thanksgiving/,Mansplaining Your Way Through the Crypto Crash at Thanksgiving,"No, you don’t have to accept any personal responsibility for suggesting Anchor was just like a savings account.",2022-11-23,"Crypto investors are set to eat a lot of humble pie at this year’s Thanksgiving table. This time last year, as bitcoin and ether were setting new all-time highs, you probably looked like a genius for being able to explain what a “decentralized autonomous organization” or non-fungible token is. Well, times have changed.
The crypto economy has collapsed but you could still come out looking smart this holiday. And what better way to ease tense conversations than by explaining your way through them. This is CoinDesk’s definitive guide to explaining what broke in crypto this year and why it was in no way your fault. No way, no how!
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
First, the economic context! Crypto is a risk asset that benefited greatly after governments turned on the money spigots to keep their economies floating amid the early days of the coronavirus pandemic. This was after about a decade of “cheap money,” where the U.S. Federal Reserve deliberately kept interest rates low to encourage people to spend and invest rather than save.
Investors – from thrill-seeking venture capitalists to pension funds – were indirectly encouraged to seek out ever-riskier bets. And there sat crypto, looking pretty on the far end of the risk curve, ready to soak up excess liquidity. Well, once inflation started to rear its ugly head, and Jerome Powell decided to cool a “temporarily” hot economy, of course crypto would take a hit.
Who could’ve predicted that? Certainly not anyone who thought a 20% savings rate on Terra's Anchor protocol looked SAFU.
OK, so maybe you did say last year that the upcoming Ethereum Merge would be a great buying opportunity. But are you any more responsible for getting your family and friends to invest than someone like Tom Brady? This fella, an American Treasure, staked his entire reputation on FTX, the now-defunct crypto exchange.
Crypto hype cycles tend to be self-reinforcing – as soon as the number goes up, there’s a natural tendency for it to keep going as more and more people remember that they opened a Coinbase account in 2017. (This is Bitcoin’s patented “number go up” technology, which works until it doesn’t.)
See also: NFL Legend Tom Brady Caught in FTX Fallout
Many people, however, won’t be convinced to buy crypto by rising prices alone. Instead, they need a little encouragement. Enter the “celebrity influencer.” Crypto didn’t invent the idea of selling products to fans, or the odd psychological trait where people form parasocial relationships and begin trusting people they don’t even know. But it is a natural fit.
Kim Kardashian boosted “ethereumMax.” Larry David made FTX seem lovable even to curmudgeons. Matt Damon told us investing in crypto was an act of courage. Should anyone have taken investment advice from these people? Well, they had to get rich and/or beautiful (maybe not Larry) somehow …
Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of FTX and the hedge fund Alameda Research, built a celebrity reputation of his own. The supposedly ethical billionaire, who donated to and founded nonprofits and ate vegan, spent as much money on charity as on advertisements. Just as people trust people like Tom Brady, we learned to believe in Sam.
But even if the vision Bankman-Fried was selling wasn’t a scam, it still wasn’t “crypto,” you could say. As many have pointed out since the collapse of the once $32 billion dollar crypto exchange, the type of mismanagement of customer funds that happened at FTX could have only happened on a custodial platform.
See also: Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle
DeFi, or decentralized finance, never takes ownership of users’ funds, and so cannot abuse them. Further, throughout the bear market, many DeFi platforms have functioned exactly as they should have by following prewritten rules set in code – liquidating anyone that should have been liquidated.
It’s a fairer system. And I for one am thankful for it."
440,1089,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/23/australias-markets-watchdog-sues-fintech-company-block-earner/,Australia's Markets Watchdog Sues Fintech Company Block Earner,"The Australian Securities and Investments Commission said the company offered fixed-yield earning products that should be licensed, leaving consumers without important protections.",2022-11-23,"Australia's markets regulator is suing Block Earner, alleging the fintech company provided unlicensed financial services.
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) said Block Earner offered a range of fixed-yield earning products based on crypto assets, according to a statement from the commission Wednesday. The products should have been licensed because they are a managed investment scheme, leaving ""consumers without important protections,"" it said.
“Although we understand the backdrop, this is a disappointing outcome,"" said Block Earner co-founder and CEO Charlie Karaboga in a statement to Business News Australia. Karaboga said since inception, customers' funds have been protected against events like the recent collapse of crypto exchange FTX and that a lack of regulatory clarity ""creates friction between regulators and innovators."" The company, which has backing from crypto exchange Coinbase, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from CoinDesk.
The case isn't the first time ASIC has targeted the crypto industry. Last month, it sued BPS Financial, the company behind the qoin digital token, for running misleading ads.
""Simply because a product hinges on a crypto asset, does not mean it falls outside financial services law,"" ASIC Deputy Chair Sarah Court said in the statement. The regulator is seeking declarations, injunctions and pecuniary penalties. A hearing has not yet been scheduled.
Michael Bacina, a partner at law firm Piper Alderman, said the alarm around such financial products had already been sounded in the past few months. “Crypto products offering a percentage return are on a high risk of being seen to be a financial investment or managed investment scheme, even if they are structured as a loan arrangement,” he said.
Read More: What the Mention of Crypto in Australia's Budget Means"
441,794,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/23/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-holds-firm-over-16k-after-tracking-stocks-upward/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Holds Firm Over $16K After Tracking Stocks Upward,"ALSO: James Rubin writes that Changpeng Zhao and Elon Musk, among others, have spoken freely when discussing the fallout from crypto's rapidly expanding crises and the individuals behind them. But they haven't always been consistent.",2022-11-23,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin regained its grip over $16K after dipping to a two-year low earlier in the week.
Insights: Changpeng Zhao and Elon Musk have been pointed in recent comments about FTX and the rapidly growing fallout. Did they go too far?
Bitcoin Recovered From Its Monday Slumber
By James Rubin
Bitcoin awakened from an early-week slumber to rest snugly above its previous $16,000 support.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading about $16,200, up 2.5% as crypto markets returned to tracking stocks, which rose on renewed hopes the U.S. Federal Reserve's hawkish monetary policy was taming inflation and that it would soon be able to retrench from its recent diet of 75 basis point interest rate hikes.
""Wall Street is mostly green today and that has provided a little boost for cryptos,"" wrote Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda.
BTC sunk to a two-year low on Monday amid fears over the fate of Genesis Global, a once-mighty crypto trading and lending firm, that is reportedly in talks to raise fresh capital after it halted customer withdrawals last week. Genesis is the latest victim of the fallout from the collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange, and despite Tuesday's bitcoin recovery, investors remained jittery. (Genesis is a CoinDesk sister company.)
""Bitcoin is back above the $16,000 level but still remains in the danger zone as everyone waits for the next crypto domino to fall,"" Moya wrote. ""It seems crypto traders are already pricing in a bankruptcy for crypto lender Genesis. Contagion for FTX will impact many but it seems a fresh catalyst is needed for sellers to take control.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,120, up more than 2%. Other major cryptos were largely in the green, with LINK gaining almost 7%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was roughly flat.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) each jumped over a percentage point after Cleveland Federal Reserve President Loretta Mester said the Fed was entering ""a restrictive stance of policy.""
At that point, I think it makes sense that we can slow down a bit the ... pace of increases,” she said. “We’re still going to raise the funds rate, but we’re at a reasonable point now where we can be very deliberate in setting monetary policy.”
Meanwhile, in crypto news, a well-known crypto trader linked to last month’s $114 million Mango Markets exploit failed in his attempt to find a similar vulnerability. The trader, identified on Twitter and tagged by blockchain analysts as Avraham Eisenberg, borrowed 40 million curve (CRV) tokens (worth $20 million at the time) using the decentralized lending platform Aave, then transferred them to the OKEx crypto exchange.
But after a series of wild swings in the CRV price, Eisenberg's position appears to have been liquidated. According to the blockchain analysis firm Arkham, Eisenberg borrowed the majority of CRV tokens on Aave by pledging $40 million in USDC stablecoin as collateral. Blockchain sleuths on Twitter speculated that he appeared to be building up a CRV short position – that is, to profit off a price decline.
Oanda's Moya was less than sanguine about crypto pricing in the weeks ahead. ""Bitcoin has support ahead of the $15,500 level but if that does not hold, technical selling could send prices toward the $13,500 region,"" he wrote.
Did Changpeng Zhao and Elon Go Too Far?
By James Rubin
What do billionaires and multimillionaires say about crypto?
Anything they want.
On Tuesday crypto exchange Binance founder and CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao add his voice to the chorus of crypto observers doubting that Grayscale, operator of the largest bitcoin trust, holds as much BTC as it says. But he then made a quick retreat.
Zhao initially tweeted numbers that, had they been true, would have undermined a position held by Grayscale and its partner, crypto exchange Coinbase, that such concerns were unwarranted. But he deleted his tweet after Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong appeared to respond soon after on Twitter.
""If you see FUD out there – remember, our financials are public (we're a public company),"" Armstrong wrote, referring to crypto parlance for fear, uncertainty and doubt. (Binance is a privately held company that doesn't disclose financial information.)
Zhao appeared contrite: ""Brian Armstrong just told me"" the numbers ""are wrong,"" he wrote, adding: ""Let’s work together to improve transparency in the industry."" (Grayscale is a CoinDesk sister company.)
The Twitter interaction between CZ and Armstrong preceded a story by Semafor, a recent publication founded by Bloomberg and New York Times veterans, that Elon Musk wasn't always as down on the disgraced founder of troubled crypto exchange FTX, Sam Bankman-Fried, as he's been in recent comments.
On Nov. 12, a day after FTX filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, Musk said in a Twitter Spaces event: “To be honest, I’d never heard of him,” Musk said. “But then I got a ton of people telling me [that] he’s got, you know, huge amounts of money that he wants to invest in the Twitter deal. And I talked to him for about half an hour. And I know my bulls**t meter was redlining. It was like, this dude is bulls**t – that was my impression.”
But shortly after announcing his $44 billion purchase of social media platform Twitter, Musk had invited Bankman-Fried to sink a $100 million stake he owned in the previously publicly traded company. And as Semafor reported, the two even had a phone call in late spring weeks before the deal closed about Bankman-Fried possibly joining a bid for Twitter. Bankman-Fried elected not to participate but contributed his $100 million in stock toward a now privately held company. An FTX balance sheet prepared after Musk closed on his deal, and circulated to investors earlier this month, listed Twitter shares as an “illiquid” asset.
""The best pitchers have a short-term memory and a bulletproof confidence,"" as Hall of Fame Major League Baseball pitcher Greg Maddux once said.
4:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(8:30 UTC) Europe S&P Global Composite PMI (Nov)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Durable Goods Orders (Oct)
3:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(19:00 UTC) Federal Open Market Committee Minutes
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Flirts With $16K Amid Renewed Crypto Contagion Fears
Bitcoin is flirting with $16,000 as crypto traders speculate over the future of Genesis Global, a victim of the fallout from the recent collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange. CoinFund President Chris Perkins and Nansen Research Analyst Niklas Polk shared their insights. Plus, CoinDesk's Jodie Gunzberg broke down crypto market performance by industry sectors.
On-Chain Data Shows Close Ties Between FTX and Alameda Were There From the Start, Nansen Reports: Niklas Polk, a research analyst at the analytics firm, discusses its latest report, and what on-chain data reveals about the wallets used by FTX and Alameda.
Lawyers Detail the ‘Abrupt and Difficult’ Collapse of FTX in First Bankruptcy Hearing: FTX’s lawyers say former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried ran the exchange like his own “personal fiefdom,” allowing executives to use customer funds to purchase luxury real estate.
Saudi Arabia’s NFT Collection Soars After Unexpected Soccer Win Against Argentina: Argentina's fan token, on the other hand, slid 21% following the team's loss on Monday.
Tornado Cash Developer Alexey Pertsev to Remain in Jail Until at Least Late Februrary: Pertsev, a Russian national living in the Netherlands, has been accused of facilitating money laundering by developing the now sanctioned app
Curve's CRV Token Turns Volatile as Exchange's Balance Hits Record High: The token sank to a two-year low of 40 cents early Tuesday before quickly bouncing back to 53 cents."
442,488,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/23/first-mover-americas-ftxs-first-hearing-genesis-seeks-help/,"First Mover Americas: FTX’s First Hearing, Genesis Seeks Help","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 23, 2022.",2022-11-23,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Genesis Global Capital hired investment bank Moelis & Co. to explore options including a potential bankruptcy. The New York Times said a final decision hasn’t been made and it is still possible for the company to avoid a bankruptcy filing. Separately, Barry Silbert, founder of Genesis owner DCG, disclosed in a note to shareholders that the company had a roughly $575 million liability to Genesis Global Capital, which is due in May 2023. (DCG is also the parent company of CoinDesk.)
Sam Bankman-Fried, former CEO of FTX, apologized to the crypto exchange’s employees in a new letter sent out over the company’s Slack on Tuesday. He did not address concerns about customers' funds being misappropriated or other recent revelations about the company. Bankman-Fried said he felt ""deeply sorry about what happened.” FTX also had its first hearing on Tuesday, letting the company’s lawyers finally get a better sense of just what was going on at the bankrupt crypto exchange.
Singapore’s largest bank by market cap, DBS, completed a fixed income trade on JPMorgan’s blockchain network Onyx. DBS said it is the first Asian bank to use the Onyx network, which is a blockchain-based fixed income trading network, to complete a trade. The Onyx Digital Assets network uses tokens for short-term trading in fixed income markets, enabling investors to lend assets for a period of hours without them leaving their balance sheets.
The chart shows the open interest in bitcoin futures traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) has soared to 98,725 BTC, surpassing the peak of 93,628 BTC reached in October last year.
Institutions have returned to the bitcoin market but on the bearish side.
Open interest refers to the number of contracts open or active at a given time.
Mango Exploiter's Funds Get Liquidated After Roiling Aave Using $20M of Borrowed Curve Tokens
On-Chain Data Shows Close Ties Between FTX and Alameda Were There From the Start: Nansen
Crypto Market Analysis: Investors See Few Encouraging Signs"
443,25,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/23/what-is-a-crypto-exchange-token-and-how-did-it-help-blow-up-ftx/,What Is a Crypto Exchange Token and How Did It Help Blow up FTX?,"Exchange tokens do not represent a claim on a centralized crypto businesses, but they can have utility.",2022-11-23,"The FTT exchange token played a key role in the downfall of the crypto exchange FTX and affiliated trading firm Alameda Research. It was the use of FTT to inflate both entities’ balance sheets, reported by CoinDesk’s Ian Allison on Nov. 2, that raised the first doubts that sparked the collapse.
FTT may have been core to another aspect of the FTX fraud, serving as notional (but actually worthless) “collateral” for loans of customer funds made by FTX to bail out Alameda.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
But what are exchange tokens? What role do they serve for the exchanges that issue them? How should they be treated under modern accounting standards? And how do they advance the crypto industry’s agenda of decentralization?
To answer the last question first: Exchange tokens are by and large not decentralized, and, if anything, their goal is the opposite of decentralization. They are, at bottom, an incentive to keep using the same centralized exchange. Holders can use them to get discounts on trading fees, rewards and early access to offerings. Despite chatter on Twitter, the FTT token did not distribute a share of FTX platform revenue or give holders any governance rights, and neither do most exchange tokens.
Technically, exchange tokens are nothing special. FTT was tracked as an ERC-20 token on Ethereum, a kind of token that pretty much anyone can create with limited technical skill. BNB, Binance’s exchange token, is tracked on its branded BNB Chain, a blockchain that began life as an Ethereum fork but has merged with a separate permissioned blockchain.
See also: Binance Seeks to Rev Up Its BNB Blockchain
That’s in contrast to one of the concepts that may have inspired the creation of exchange tokens. Starting roughly in 2016-2017, there was a lot of discussion in crypto of “utility tokens” that would be used to incentivize and pay nodes for decentralized computing services. Though the term seems to have faded, current examples include the decentralized storage network Storj; the BitTorrent token now managed by Tron; and even Helium, the troubled Wi-Fi node project.
The appeal of utility tokens is you don’t need any legal regime to enforce property rights or claim a place in the “capital stack” – that is, the ordered list of obligations from an organization to counterparties including debtors and investors. That’s partly because there is no capital stack, but also because the value derives procedurally from demand for services that are, in effect, directly connected to the blockchain.
The value of exchange tokens, by contrast, is implied to rest on a regulatory or legal regime that in many cases doesn’t actually exist. Most if not all exchange tokens are issued by so-called “offshore” exchanges, like FTX and Binance, that are registered in light-touch regulatory havens such as, in FTX’s case, the Bahamas. U.S.-registered exchanges Kraken and Coinbase, by contrast, do not have their own tokens because they have access to standard equity markets (and the associated regulatory restraints). Exchange tokens represent a way for offshore exchanges to raise money without that access.
“Binance was the first to launch, and it was really successful. And when you’re successful, you get copycats,” Katie Talati, co-founder and director of research at the crypto asset manager Arca, said. “Huobi, OKX, they all launched their own token and, going forward, it has been standard. FTX didn’t launch until the second half of 2019, and at the same time they launched their token.”
But just because exchange tokens can raise money like equity doesn’t mean that’s what they are. “Currently, these aren’t part of the capital stack and you can’t claim anything in a bankruptcy, for instance,” Talati said. “There’s no governance, you can’t say you want the exchange to do X,Y and Z.”
But in a strange sort of ontological mystery that is fairly common in crypto, these tokens, issued by entities without strong regulators or even necessarily well-enforced property rights, trade a lot like equity. Talati said that a discounted cash flow model is one useful way to think about their value, “but there are a lot of inputs that we can’t model.”
This semi-fungibility with an equity model may have eased the way to Sam Bankman-Fried’s fraudulent finances. One element of the grift was that FTT was what’s known as a “low-flow, high-fully diluted value” token. Only a very small portion traded publicly, but the public price for that fraction was assumed to apply to hundreds of millions of dollars of the token owned by FTX itself. This makes a rough sort of sense if you think in terms of the “equity value” that a startup founder, for instance, hangs on to after venture capital investors get their slice.
But the handling of the FTT tokens on FTX and Alameda’s balance sheets didn’t track either to standard equity accounting practices or, more importantly, to reality. When accounting for its own equity, or handling stock it has bought back from public markets, companies do not add them to their valuation estimate or liquid assets, instead usually tallying them separately as “treasury stock.”
That’s because a company’s equity isn’t part of its total value, it is a reflection of that value. Adding your own stock to your bottom line would be a bit like a snake eating its own tail.
This basic accounting deception became a time bomb when Bankman-Fried seemingly began using FTT as collateral for loans between FTX and Alameda, as well as other related entities. As I wrote last week, these shenanigans resemble nothing so much as Enron’s use of related entities and paper shuffling to hide debt and pump its own valuation.
The centrality of FTT to the worst crypto blowup of all time has pushed crypto leaders to clarify their stance on accounting for exchange tokens and similar in-house assets. Changpeng Zhao, CEO of Binance, took pains last week to clarify that Binance has “never used BNB as collateral.” In a Twitter Space last week, Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse similarly clarified that his company does not count its vast trove of XRP on its balance sheet.
See also: Binance Launches Native Oracle Network, Starting With BNB
This relatively unspoken norm helps explain why CoinDesk’s reporting about flows of FTT was so explosive. It’s not the sort of asset that should be used in the way it seemingly was, and no truly independent entity would have accepted it as loan collateral, or even considered it an “asset.”
Experienced crypto investors are in a position to be the bulwark enforcing that norm – and to lose their shirts when they don’t. Talati is unambiguous on Arca’s stance.
“When we look at [projects], a lot of them will have their own token on their balance sheet,” she said. “And we just cross that out.”"
444,447,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/23/ftx-contagion-revives-dreaded-2022-crypto-knell-the-withdrawal-halt/,FTX Contagion Revives Dreaded 2022 Crypto Knell – the ‘Withdrawal Halt’,"The downfall of the FTX exchange has caused a domino effect: a growing list of crypto firms, such as BlockFi and Genesis, halting withdrawals. CoinDesk counted 16 of these announcements just this year.",2022-11-23,"In the crypto industry in 2022, the phrase ""halting withdrawals"" is like black smoke billowing out of a building. Damage is certain.
Technically it means that a crypto exchange or lender has gated customers from being able to get their money or digital tokens back – typically because there’s just not enough assets on hand to meet redemption requests. The likely upshot, though, is that the business is unlikely to recover easily from the destruction. In many cases, a bankruptcy filing is the next step.
Now, the rapid unraveling of once-billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, including the FTX exchange and the crypto trading firm Alameda Research, has unleashed a fresh wave of crypto exchanges and lenders halting customers’ withdrawals over the past few weeks.
The collateral damage lengthens a list of casualties from the dramatic collapse of the Terra blockchain earlier this year, which accelerated or led directly to the failures of crypto firms including Celsius Network, Babel Finance, Voyager Digital and Three Arrows Capital.
The contagion can spread swiftly. When one company suddenly refuses redemption requests, another company suddenly faces a liquidity crisis. Market jitters unnerve investors, leading to further withdrawal requests, exacerbating the panic. Such is the pattern in digital-asset markets where there is no Federal Reserve or other central bank backstopping it all – as there is in the traditional financial system.
(CoinDesk counts 16 distinct withdrawal-halt announcements this year; the list is below.)
“For each player, you're going to be in this situation where all of a sudden you have to manage how much information you want to reveal,” said Benoit Bosc, global head of product at crypto trading firm and liquidity provider GSR. “It might be more information than you actually want to reveal then.”
BlockFi, a crypto lender, paused client withdrawals from its platform on Nov. 10, citing the “lack of clarity” around FTX's current situation; it was two days after the FTX exchange fully halted customer withdrawals on Nov. 8. BlockFi later acknowledged its “significant exposure” to FTX.
Last week, Genesis, a big crypto financial firm, announced its lending unit had suspended redemptions and new loan originations, citing “the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion.” Earlier in the year, the business suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in losses after Three Arrows Capital’s failure. (Genesis is a CoinDesk sister company.)
Bosc cited Warren Buffett’s oft-repeated quote: “‘When the tide goes out, you see who is swimming naked.’”
Nicholas Colas, co-founder of the market analysis firm DataTrek Research, wrote in a note that the current crisis will take time to be resolved, and “until then this space will likely see more selling pressure.”
The following is a timeline of crypto firms’ withdrawal suspensions in the past few weeks:
Nov. 8: The FTX exchange halted customer withdrawals, an FTX support employee said in the company's official Telegram group.
Nov. 10: Crypto lender BlockFi halted withdrawals from its platform, citing the “lack of clarity” around FTX's current situation at that time. (In a Nov. 14 update, the lender acknowledged its “significant exposure” to FTX.)
Nov. 11: FTX US ceased processing crypto withdrawals. The same day, FTX Group companies – including FTX Trading and FTX US – filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S.
Nov. 13: The Hong Kong-based crypto exchange AAX said it had suspended withdrawal for as long as 10 days due to the failure of an unidentified third party. The company said it had no financial exposure to FTX or its affiliates. On Nov. 23, AAX announced to close out derivatives positions.
Nov. 15: The Japanese crypto exchange Liquid, owned by FTX, suspended both fiat and crypto withdrawals on its Liquid Global platform “in compliance with the requirements of voluntary Chapter 11 proceedings in the United States.” The exchange announced on Nov. 20 that it had paused all forms of trading on its platform.
Nov. 15: Crypto lending platform SALT said it had halted all deposits and withdrawals on its platform due to FTX exposure.
Nov. 16: Crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading’s lending unit temporarily suspended redemptions and new loan originations, citing “in response to the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion.”
Nov. 16: The Winklevoss brothers’ Gemini exchange said it was pausing withdrawals on its yield-earning Earn program as the exchange suffered a $485 million rush of outflows following Genesis' announcement earlier in the day. Genesis Global Trading powered the Earn program for Gemini.
And here is a timeline of withdrawal suspensions from earlier this year:
June 12: Celsius Network says that it is “pausing all withdrawals, swaps and transfers between accounts.” (Celsius filed for bankruptcy on July 13.)
June 17: Babel says “redemptions and withdrawals from Babel Finance products will be temporarily suspended.”
June 23: CoinFLEX announces it is “pausing all withdrawals.”
July 1: Voyager Digital says it is “temporarily suspending trading, deposits, withdrawals and loyalty rewards.” (Voyager filed for bankruptcy protection on July 5.)
July 4: Vauld says that it “made the difficult decision to suspend all withdrawals, trading and deposits.”
July 20: Zipmex says that it is “pausing withdrawals until further notice.”
August 2: ZB.com announces that ""deposit and withdrawal services are now suspended"" after losing nearly five million in a suspected hack.
August 8: Hodlnaut says it ""will be halting withdrawals, token swaps and deposits with immediate effect."""
445,278,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/25/crypto-exchange-binance-delists-serum-trading-pairs-amid-ftx-connection/,Crypto Exchange Binance Delists Serum Trading Pairs Amid FTX Connection,Three Serum trading pairs on Binance will be terminated on Nov. 28.,2022-11-25,"Cryptocurrency exchange Binance will delist three Serum (SRM) trading pairs as the fallout from FTX's collapse continues, according to an announcement on Friday.
The exchange will terminate trading of the SRM/BNB, SRM/BTC and SRM/USDT trading pairs on Monday, Nov. 28.
Serum is a Solana-based decentralized exchange protocol that was championed by FTX since its inception, with the defunct exchange awarding SRM tokens to traders in the form of a weekly airdrop.
On Nov. 14, the Solana Foundation said it held 134.54 million SRM on FTX, raising concerns about the future of the project.
The community forked the project the following day to protect itself against a hack that took place on FTX, the token subsequently rallied by over 250%.
The majority of SRM trading volume takes place on Binance, according to CoinMarketCap, although the token is still listed on Kraken, Kucoin and Gate.io.
SRM was trading at $0.2704 as of press time, plunging by 7.5% over the past 24-hours.
Read more: FTX Hack Sparks Revolution at Serum DEX as Solana Devs Plot Alameda's Ouster"
446,791,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/25/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-stays-calm-at-165k/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Stays Calm at $16.5K,Jocelyn Yang writes about the domino effect caused by the the downfall of FTX.,2022-11-25,"Good morning. This is an abbreviated version of First Mover Asia because the team is out of the office today for a CoinDesk company holiday in the U.S. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds its $16,500 perch as the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday weekend begins.
Insights: Jocelyn Yang writes about the domino effect caused by the the downfall of FTX.
Bitcoin Trades Sideways, Holds Over $16.5K
By James Rubin
Bitcoin's price barely budged on the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $16,500, down a mere 0.11% over the past 24 hours. BTC has been holding steady around $16,000 for the past three weeks, although it took a brief dip below $15,500 on Monday amid fears about the future of crypto trading and lending firm Genesis Global Capital, which has been caught up in crypto platform FTX's implosion.
Crypto markets calmed over the past three days, however, buoyed along with equity indexes by signs that the U.S. central bank would retreat from its current diet of hawkish 75 basis point interest rate hikes. While a number of crypto observers say the recent debacles may ultimately strengthen the crypto industry by forcing regulators to ratchet up their efforts, most analysts remain bearish about prices.
Ether (ETH) was recently changing hands at about $1,195, up 1.16% over the past day. Other cryptos were mixed, with Cardano's ADA down almost a percentage point (-0.96%) and Quant (QNT) trading up 0.32%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was down 0.26%.
FTX Contagion Revives Dreaded 2022 Crypto Knell – the ‘Withdrawal Halt’
By Jocelyn Yang
In the crypto industry in 2022, the phrase ""halting withdrawals"" is like black smoke billowing out of a building. Damage is certain.
Technically, it means that a crypto exchange or lender has gated customers from being able to get their money or digital tokens back – typically because there just aren't enough assets on hand to meet redemption requests. The likely upshot, though, is that the business is unlikely to recover easily from the destruction. In many cases, a bankruptcy filing is the next step.
Now, the rapid unraveling of once-billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto empire, including the FTX exchange and the crypto trading firm Alameda Research, has unleashed a fresh wave of crypto exchanges and lenders halting customers’ withdrawals over the past few weeks.
The collateral damage lengthens a list of casualties from the dramatic collapse of the Terra blockchain earlier this year, which accelerated or led directly to the failures of crypto firms including Celsius Network, Babel Finance, Voyager Digital and Three Arrows Capital.
(CoinDesk counts 16 distinct withdrawal-halt announcements this year; the list is below.)
The contagion can spread swiftly. When one company suddenly refuses redemption requests, another company suddenly faces a liquidity crisis. Market jitters unnerve investors, leading to further withdrawal requests, exacerbating the panic. Such is the pattern in digital-asset markets where there is no Federal Reserve or other central bank backstopping it all – as there is in the traditional financial system.
“For each player, you're going to be in this situation where all of a sudden you have to manage how much information you want to reveal,” said Benoit Bosc, global head of product at crypto trading firm and liquidity provider GSR. “It might be more information than you actually want to reveal then.”
BlockFi, a crypto lender, paused client withdrawals from its platform on Nov. 10, citing the “lack of clarity” around FTX's current situation; this move came two days after the FTX exchange fully halted customer withdrawals on Nov. 8. BlockFi later acknowledged its “significant exposure” to FTX.
Last week, Genesis, a big crypto financial firm, announced its lending unit had suspended redemptions and new loan originations, citing “the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion.” Earlier in the year, the business suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in losses after Three Arrows Capital’s failure. (Genesis is a CoinDesk sister company.)
Bosc cited Warren Buffett’s oft-repeated quote: “‘When the tide goes out, you see who is swimming naked.’”
Nicholas Colas, co-founder of the market analysis firm DataTrek Research, wrote in a note that the current crisis will take time to be resolved, and “until then this space will likely see more selling pressure.”
The following is a timeline of crypto firms’ withdrawal suspensions in the past few weeks:
Nov. 8: The FTX exchange halted customer withdrawals, an FTX support employee said in the company's official Telegram group.
Nov. 10: Crypto lender BlockFi halted withdrawals from its platform, citing the “lack of clarity” around FTX's current situation at that time. (In a Nov. 14 update, the lender acknowledged its “significant exposure” to FTX.)
Nov. 11: FTX US ceased processing crypto withdrawals. The same day, FTX Group companies – including FTX Trading and FTX US – filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S.
Nov. 13: The Hong Kong-based crypto exchange AAX said it had suspended withdrawals for as long as 10 days due to the failure of an unidentified third party. The company said it had no financial exposure to FTX or its affiliates. On Nov. 23, AAX announced it would close out derivatives positions.
Nov. 15: The Japanese crypto exchange Liquid, owned by FTX, suspended both fiat and crypto withdrawals on its Liquid Global platform “in compliance with the requirements of voluntary Chapter 11 proceedings in the United States.” The exchange announced on Nov. 20 that it had paused all forms of trading on its platform.
Nov. 15: Crypto lending platform SALT said it had halted all deposits and withdrawals on its platform due to FTX exposure.
Nov. 16: Crypto investment bank Genesis Global Trading’s lending unit temporarily suspended redemptions and new loan originations, citing “the extreme market dislocation and loss of industry confidence caused by the FTX implosion.”
Nov. 16: The Winklevoss brothers’ Gemini exchange said it was pausing withdrawals on its yield-earning Earn program as the exchange suffered a $485 million rush of outflows following Genesis' announcement earlier in the day. Genesis Global Trading powered the Earn program for Gemini.
And here is a timeline of withdrawal suspensions from earlier this year:
June 12: Celsius Network says that it is “pausing all withdrawals, swaps and transfers between accounts.” (Celsius filed for bankruptcy on July 13.)
June 17: Babel says “redemptions and withdrawals from Babel Finance products will be temporarily suspended.”
June 23: CoinFLEX announces it is “pausing all withdrawals.”
July 1: Voyager Digital says it is “temporarily suspending trading, deposits, withdrawals and loyalty rewards.” (Voyager filed for bankruptcy protection on July 5.)
July 4: Vauld says that it “made the difficult decision to suspend all withdrawals, trading and deposits.”
July 20: Zipmex says that it is “pausing withdrawals until further notice.”
August 2: ZB.com announces that ""deposit and withdrawal services are now suspended"" after losing nearly five million in a suspected hack.
August 8: Hodlnaut says it ""will be halting withdrawals, token swaps and deposits with immediate effect.""
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Germany's Gross Domestic Product (QoQ)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""The Hash"" on CoinDesk TV:
Litecoin Surges; El Salvador Proposes Digital Securities Bill, Paves Way for Bitcoin Bonds
""The Hash"" hosts discussed the top stories including El Salvador's national assembly mulling a draft bill to regulate digital securities which could pave the way for issuing bitcoin-backed bonds. Plus, ""The Hash"" took a closer look at Litecoin's breakout performance ahead of its mining reward halving.
Crypto’s Future Will Be Based on Self-Custody and Regulation, Kraken's Dave Ripley: The incoming CEO discusses why the future of crypto will be based on proof of reserves and thoughtful regulation.
Ethereum R&D Firm Flashbots Shares Details About Its Next-Gen Block Builder: After teasing Suave at this year’s Devcon, Flashbots outlines how the plug-and-play solution will transform the way validators earn MEV.
Founder of EOS Developer Block.One Buys 9.3% of Crypto Bank Silvergate: The purchase makes Brendan Blumer the largest holder of Silvergate Capital."
447,899,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/27/first-mover-asia-dogecoin-surges-16-to-continue-its-holiday-cheer/,First Mover Asia: Dogecoin Surges 16% to Continue Its Holiday Cheer,"The popular meme coin's upswing during U.S. Thanksgiving holiday celebrations, which started Thursday, was an exception in crypto markets as bitcoin and most other major tokens traded sideways.",2022-11-27,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Dogecoin soared more than 16% over the past 24 hours and is up more than 50% since last Tuesday.
Insights: Ethereum Name service selects Karpatkey DAO to manage Its endowment fund
Dogecoin Surges; Other Cryptos Trade Flat
By James Rubin
On a quiet holiday weekend in cryptocurrency markets, DOGE made some noise.
The popular meme coin soared 16% over the previous 24 hours and was trading at more than 10 cents. DOGE has risen nearly 50% since last Monday with most of its gains occurring during U.S. Thanksgiving holiday celebrations, which started on Thursday. The reasons for the spike were difficult to pinpoint, although social media influencer David Gokhshtein mused to his more than 700,000 Twitter followers on Thursday about the possibility of new Twitter boss Elon Musk and Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin working together on DOGE improvement.
""I feel that we’ll all see Vitalik and Elon working together to somehow upgrade $DOGE,"" Gokhshstein wrote.
Investors fretting another post FTX-related price plunge in crypto markets could otherwise take heart at bitcoin's resilience, although the largest cryptocurrency's ability to hold its perch over $16,000 for yet another few days hardly suggests a more permanent upturn is approaching, a number of analysts have said. BTC was recently trading at about $16,500, roughly flat for the past 24 hours and about where it stood Wednesday when the U.S. began its Thanksgiving holiday celebrations.
""It's trying to stabilize around the $15,500-$17,000 region and weather the storm but I'm not sure it will be that easy,"" wrote Craig Erlam, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda.
Traditional markets were closed on Thursday and stock trading the following day was light as many businesses closed, including major financial services firms. The calm extended to crypto markets.
Ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency in market value, was recently changing hands at about $1,200, roughly flat from Saturday, same time and about where it stood as Thursday dawned. Aside from DOGE, most cryptos in the CoinDesk top 20 also traded sideways, although XLM recently rose more than 3%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was up about 1%.
Oanda's Erlam was less than sanguine about crypto markets as the fallout widens from crypto exchange FTX's implosion earlier this month.
""There's likely more to come from the FTX collapse and the contagion effects, not to mention potentially other scandals that could be uncovered,"" Erlam wrote. ""This may continue to make crypto traders very nervous and leave the foundations supporting price extremely shaky.""
Ethereum Name Service Selects Karpatkey DAO to Manage Its Endowment Fund
By Sage D. Young
The Ethereum Name Service (ENS) decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) has chosen a new fund manager to take charge in managing its treasury in the wake of crypto winter.
In a vote that opened Nov. 17 and closed on Nov. 22, community members selected Karpatkey DAO, a decentralized finance (DeFi) fund management organization originally incubated through Gnosis Ltd.
Karpatkey received 1.76 million votes. Notable addresses that picked Karpatkey include ENS co-founder Alex Van de Sande (avsa.eth), founder of Rotkiapp Lefteris Karapetsas (lefteris.eth) and ENS steward Griff Green (griff.eth), who altogether had a voting power of 468K ENS.
“None of the above” came in second place with 1.3 million votes.
Now that the community has chosen Karpatkey, the treasury management firm in collaboration with Steakhouse Financial, going forward, will manage the bulk of ENS’ treasury composed mostly of USDC and ETH. With more than two years of experience, Karpatkey boasts over $397 million of non-custodial assets under management, excluding ENS.
The goal of the endowment fund, called ENS Endaoment, is to create a sustainable fund that can fuel continuous development regardless of macroeconomics conditions that may adversely affect revenue stemming from ENS registrations and renewals. Talks of the ENS Endaoment were happening as early as March before the crises related to Terra, Three Arrows Capital, Celsius Network and FTX, according to Nicholas Johnson, one of three directors for the ENS Foundation, and Mona El Isa, CEO and founder of Avantgarde, one of the potential fund managers up for consideration.
Karpatkey said in its proposal, “The funds would be managed transparently and completely on-chain through a non-custodial solution … The core of Karpatkey’s non-custodial solution relies on the most battle-tested tooling to manage DAO treasuries: a proxy Management Safe and the Zodiac Roles Modifier.”
Zodiac, developed by Gnosis Guild, is “a collection of tools built according to an open standard” as said on its Github page, while Safe, securing close to $40 billion in all its Ethereum contracts, is one of the most popular ways to custody digital assets in a decentralized manner.
$52 million is the initial size of Karpatkey’s proposal for the ENS Endaoment and $69 million with a projected return of 5.83% is the final stage of Karpatkey’s proposal. “The strategy would use low-risk, medium complexity DeFi strategies such as providing liquidity to automated market makers.”
In an interview with CoinDesk, Karpatkey’s business development manager who goes by ""DeFi Foodie"" on Twitter, said, “It’s been a great exchange that has been in the forum, on the diversity of voices, how everybody could just give their opinion openly. And that’s been really healthy for ENS DAO because people can just speak their minds and have civil exchanges. When the forum asks questions [and] challenge[s] points, I think that’s something that is rich for the community and favorable.”
El Isa told CoinDesk that if a fund manager endorses a non-custodial, completely transparent solution, such as Enzyme, Avantgarde's proposal choice for a decentralized asset and treasury management protocol, for the ENS Endaoment, it “would be the first example of something being run completely on-chain”, where a FTX or Bernie Madoff situation “wouldn’t be possible.""
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(00:30 UTC) Australia’s Retail Sales s.a. (MoM/Oct)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:30 UTC) Japan's Unemployment Rate (Oct)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""All About Bitcoin"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Regains $16K; Legal Expert Weighs In on FTX's First Bankruptcy Hearing
Bitcoin (BTC) has rebounded after it hit a two-year low in the past 24 hours. Delphi Digital Markets Associate Jason Pagoulatos gave his outlook on the markets. Plus, FTX’s lawyers say former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried ran the exchange like his own “personal fiefdom,” allowing executives to use customer funds to purchase luxury real estate. Wilk Auslander LLP Partner Eric Snyder joined ""All About Bitcoin"" to discuss the key takeaways from FTX's first bankruptcy hearing.
US Senators Demand Sam Bankman-Fried, FTX Execs Be Held Accountable to 'Fullest Extent of the Law’: Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said in a Wednesday letter to Attorney General Merrick Garland they want Sam Bankman-Fried and others investigated.
3 Things We Learned at Tornado Cash Dev Alexey Pertsev's Trial: The prosecution said little about free speech during the trail of the Tornado Cash privacy protocol developer. The focus may be on the mechanics of DeFi.
El Salvador Proposes Digital Securities Bill, Paves Way for Bitcoin Bonds: El Salvador's bitcoin-backed ""volcano bonds"" are expected to raise $1 billion for the government."
448,1084,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/28/makerdao-community-rejects-coinshares-proposal-to-invest-up-to-500m-in-bonds/,MakerDAO Community Rejects CoinShares Proposal to Invest Up to $500M in Bonds,"The largest decentralized lending protocol MakerDAO previously approved a plan to invest $1.6 billion with Coinbase Prime for an annual yield of 1.5%, but this latest plan didn't fly.",2022-11-28,"The MakerDAO community rejected a proposal to use up to $500 million of the stablecoin USDC to invest in bonds with crypto investment firm CoinShares.
CoinShares had proposed to manage between 100 million and 500 million USDC and actively invest the money in a portfolio of corporate debt securities and government-backed bonds, aiming to return a yield matching the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). SOFR currently stands at 3.8%.
Some 72% of votes were cast against the proposal. The voting concluded Monday.
The rejection came as MakerDAO is in the process of investing billions of dollars from its reserve and optimizing its balance sheet to earn revenue from yields.
Read more: MakerDAO Members Support Founder's 'Endgame' Plan to Break Up into MetaDAOs, $2.1B of Transfers
MakerDAO is one of the largest decentralized crypto lending protocols and it holds $7.7 billion of assets in its reserve called Peg Stability Module (PSM).
A web of collaborating teams called decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) manages the protocol through public discussions in its forum, and holders of MKR, the protocol’s governance token, vote on proposals.
Starting earlier this year, multiple institutional fund managers such Coinbase and Gemini pitched to MakerDAO their plans to allocate a part of its reserve in yield-generating rewards programs, including investing in treasuries.
the most important chart in Defi, courtesy of @adcv_ and @MakerDAO Strategic Finance pic.twitter.com/vc69vv27cw
The community approved last month a plan to allocate $1.6 billion to Coinbase Prime, the crypto exchange’s custody arm, for a 1.5% annual reward and another $500 million to a consortium of hedge fund Appaloosa and crypto broker Monetalis to provide crypto-backed loans for a 4.5-6% expected annual yield.
Monetalis also won approval to allocate up to $500 million in U.S. Treasury bonds. It has invested some $200 million in Treasurys through exchange-traded funds, according to a dashboard on Dune Analytics.
In September, crypto exchange and custody service Gemini offered MakerDAO a 1.25% annual reward for staking GUSD, Gemini’s stablecoin, on its platform. MakerDAO now holds almost $500 million in GUSD.
BlockTower Capital, a digital asset investment firm, pitched last month to acquire up to 600 million USDC from MakerDAO and invest the funds in structured credit and money market funds. The community is yet to vote on the proposal.
""We have plenty of proposals and only a few billions of capital,"" Sebastien Derivaux, an asset-liability manager for MakerDAO, told CoinDesk.
CoinShares cited the recent turmoil in crypto markets as the primary reason for the rejection.
""Several delegates have recently told us that they are reluctant to vote for our proposal and the other PSM management proposals in light of market conditions (FTX implosion and Genesis insolvency) as they want to see a cooling down of the industry,"" according to a statement by CoinShares sent to CoinDesk in an email.
A spokesperson to the firm said that CoinShares intends to improve its pitch and propose it again in the coming months.
UPDATE (Nov. 28, 18:21 UTC): Adds context, proposals previously approved and CoinShares' statement to the story.
UPDATE (Nov. 28, 18:45 UTC): Adds BlockTower Capital's proposal and comment from Sebastien Derivaux."
449,682,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/28/social-media-giant-line-closes-its-crypto-exchange-bitfront/,Social-Media Giant LINE Closes Its Crypto Exchange Bitfront,"The firm will focus on its native blockchain and token, LINK.",2022-11-28,"Japanese social-media company LINE will shut down Bitfront, a crypto exchange that it launched in 2020, according to an announcement on Monday.
LINE will now shift its focus from the exchange to its native blockchain and token.
""Despite our efforts to overcome the challenges in this rapidly evolving industry, we have regretfully determined that we need to shut down Bitfront in order to continue growing the LINE blockchain ecosystem and LINK token economy,"" the announcement read.
New sign-ups and credit card deposits will be halted immediately, while customers will have until March 31 to withdraw funds.
Bitfront is one of several crypto companies that have been forced to cease operations during the yearlong cryptocurrency bear market. FTX filed for bankruptcy earlier this month following a liquidity squeeze. Bitcoin (BTC) was recently trading at $16,400, down from almost $69,000 last November.
In 2021, Bitfront stopped activity in South Korea because of regulatory concerns."
450,464,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/28/centralized-crypto-exchanges-will-remain-dominant-despite-ftx-collapse-jpmorgan/,Centralized Crypto Exchanges Will Remain Dominant Despite FTX Collapse: JPMorgan,"DeFi protocols rely heavily on centralized exchanges to be able to function and it would likely take a long time until price discovery shifts from centralized to decentralized exchanges, the bank's analysts said.",2022-11-28,"Centralized exchanges will continue to control the majority of global digital-asset trading volumes, JPMorgan said, contradicting some crypto-native experts who expect a shift toward decentralized platforms in the wake of FTX's collapse.
Decentralized exchanges' (DEX) slower transaction speeds, pooling of assets and order-traceability features are likely to limit institutional participation, the bank's strategists led by Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou wrote in a note to clients on Thursday.
The analysts also cited the absence of a limit order/stop loss feature on DEXs, their dependency on price oracles that source data from centralized exchanges, vulnerability to hacks, exploits, the need for over-collateralization and systemic risks from the cascade of automated liquidations as hindrances to widespread adoption.
""Risk/return trade-off more difficult to assess in DeFi (decentralized finance) given the use of different tokens in terms of assets borrowed or lent/collateral posted/received interest payments and given the general absence of limit order/stop loss functionality,"" the team noted. ""The management, governance and auditing of DeFi protocols without compromising too much on security and centralization is a big challenge.""
Since Sam Bankman-Fried's centralized exchange FTX went bust, activity on decentralized exchanges has picked up, with DefiLlama data showing trading volumes on decentralized platforms up 68% to $97.22 billion this month from October, the highest since May.
Many observers read that as a sign of waning confidence in centralized exchanges and the beginning of a long-lasting shift to democratized finance.
""With users' confidence in [centralized exchanges] shaken following the collapse of FTX, and the resilience DEXs have shown to the contagion in the market, we expect increased adoption of DEXs in the coming months among market participants,"" CryptoCompare's Hosam Mahmoud said in a report published on Nov. 23.
While acknowledging the recent uptick in DEX trading volume, JPMorgan doesn't think it's the start of any kind of sizable long-term trend.
""While there has been some increase in the share of DEX in overall crypto trading activity in recent weeks, this is more likely to reflect the collapse in crypto prices and the deleveraging/automatic liquidations that followed the FTX collapse,"" the bank's analyst team said."
451,1090,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/28/the-bitcoin-obituary-obituary/,The Bitcoin Obituary Obituary,And why one Harvard economist thinks bitcoin could end up on central bank balance sheets.,2022-11-28,"According to 99 Bitcoins, a website that tracks crypto obituaries, there have been 466 times someone has declared “game over” for blockchain. That’s almost certainly an undercount, if looking across financial publications, social media and interviews with experts on TV and podcasts. Even amid crypto’s bleakest winter yet, crypto boosters still seem more connected to reality than these forecasters.
There’s been a modest uptick in bitcoin obits since the collapse of the FTX crypto exchange. Indian columnist Chetan Bhagat, for instance, wrote that “crypto is now dead” in the Times of India last week. How declarative! Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman, who has been calling the end of bitcoin since 2013, recently wrote that the crypto industry is “heading for oblivion.”
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The Economist took a smarter route, couching its prediction in a question: How will crypto unravel? “If everyone stopped using it,” the vaunted financial magazine wrote. Although its argument is simple (and credulous), it’s worth taking a closer look at because it gets to the heart of why crypto isn’t going to disappear: diminishing trust.
According to The Economist, decreasing trust in crypto companies will lead to decreasing use in blockchains thereby opening these decentralized platforms to attack. The bylineless article notes 51% attacks as a particular risk, arguing that blockchain security is a direct output of a cryptocurrency’s price.
“The value of on-chain activity and tokens is self-reinforcing … The more people shy away from crypto out of fear, the less secure it becomes,” they write. The more expensive an asset, the harder it is to accumulate the necessary share needed to reverse a transaction on a decentralized network.
Astute readers will know that while a 51% attack is an embarrassment for a blockchain (and may diminish trust in the underlying asset), it doesn’t spell the end for the network. Bitcoin Cash, the fork of Bitcoin, for instance experienced two chain attacks in 2021 – it’s still chugging along. (After Ghash.io acquired more than 51% of BTC’s hashpower in 2014, no single entity has had such a large share.)
However, the larger idea is more important: Will people ever simply get fed up with crypto and stop using or building on blockchains? The reason this might seem like a salient question to The Economist is the same reason it seems ridiculous to any understanding of crypto. Starting with Bitcoin, decentralized networks are attempts at creating alternative systems where the key distinction is whether you have to trust anyone else to use them.
Blockchains live up to the promise of trustlessness with varying degrees of success. It’s also true that the industry has in large part recreated the problem of centralized institutions by relying heavily on corporate exchanges and on-ramps. But when some like Paul Krugman says it’s “never been clear exactly why anyone other than criminals would want” to send payments peer-to-peer, it seems like an acute failure of imagination.
Crypto is forward-looking – its key innovations involve long-term societal changes (learning how to self-custody assets, reimagining what money is, creating new ways of collective action). And while today we’re confronted with all the ways crypto can fail, there are still many time lines where it can succeed.
Earlier this month, Harvard economist Matthew Ferranti published a research paper looking at the situations under which it makes sense for central banks to hold bitcoin. Likely the product of months of research, Ferranti’s case study was published at a time when its conclusions likely would never seem more ridiculous to his peers.
Will bitcoin survive at all, let alone partially replace so-called risk free assets like U.S. Treasurys or dollars? Ferranti’s wager isn’t ideological, but it does presume that even nation-states could have a use for a “sanction-proof” asset like BTC. This case doesn’t even need to play out for bitcoin to succeed – but it would validate the idea that money doesn’t have to have a centralized backer.
Crypto doesn’t have to replace finance, bitcoin doesn’t have to become the only money and decentralized protocols don’t need to eliminate companies – but they exist as alternatives.
See also: Bitcoin Is 'Armageddon Insurance'?
To some extent, even if not a perfect accounting, 99 Bitcoins’ “Bitcoin Obituaries” is an attempt to put data behind a widely shared perception that the media is biased against crypto. At a time when trust in the media is at an all-time low, saying people will lose trust in crypto seems particularly off-the-mark – crypto was always about minimizing faith in people."
452,428,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/28/wrapped-bitcoin-trades-at-discount-amid-market-contagion/,Wrapped Bitcoin Trades at Discount Amid Market Contagion,WBTC’s discount dropped to as low as 1.5% as questions swirled over whether the token is fully backed. Custodian BitGo clarified that it is.,2022-11-28,"The market contagion from crypto exchange FTX’s swift collapse has spread to a key digital asset: wrapped bitcoin, a widely traded clone of the largest cryptocurrency.
According to a new report from crypto analysis firm Kaiko, wrapped bitcoin (WBTC), the largest wrapped version of bitcoin on the Ethereum blockchain, has traded at a discount to bitcoin’s price since Sam Bankman-Fried's embattled FTX exchange filed for bankruptcy protection on Nov. 11.
Kaiko said WBTC’s discount dropped to as low as 1.5% Friday after investors reacted to questions posed on Twitter about whether WBTC is fully backed. The rumor was based on data from Messari's dashboard on Dune Analysis that says FTX’s sister company, Alameda Research, was a top WBTC merchant by the number of tokens minted.
Chen Fang, chief operating officer for BitGo, WBTC's official custodian, quickly clarified that every WBTC is “1:1 backed and verifiable on-chain.”
Friday’s rumors “appear to be unfounded” as Alameda would have needed to send all BTC to BitGo, meaning that the now-defunct exchange “never actually took custody of the BTC themselves,” the Kaiko report stated.
“Alameda was a ‘WBTC merchant,’ which means they’d accept BTC from customers and send it to BitGo to mint WBTC,” crypto influencer Udi Wertheimer tweeted. “Alameda NEVER custodied BTC themselves!”
Despite the clarification, WBTC’s discount is still at 0.5%, according to Kaiko.
Wrapped assets like WBTC are meant to be pegged to the value of the original asset. They are often used for trading, lending and borrowing on decentralized-finance (DeFi) platforms.
Bitcoin (BTC)’s price was recently trading at $16,143 Monday, while WBTC was changing hands at $16,112.
FTX’s fallout gave birth to a phenomenon that Kaiko analysts previously have termed the “Alameda Gap” – a drop in liquidity across various crypto assets in the market, and altcoins’ liquidity took the hits more.
Kaiko said market makers are providing liquidity “asymmetrically, with spreads widening a lot more for higher-beta altcoins.”
By comparing the average daily spreads for the top altcoins by market cap on the Binance and Coinbase exchanges in the weeks before and after FTX filed for bankruptcy protection, Kaiko found that Solana’s SOL token had seen its spreads widen the most, “tripling from 2.1bps (basis points) to 7.4bps on Binance.”
SOL’s price has been falling sharply given its close ties with FTX/Alameda – plunging 59% in the past month. CoinDesk first reported on Alameda's balance sheet on Nov. 2 that the firm held $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.”
“Alameda was one of the most important market makers for some small-cap altcoins, while other major market makers registered losses and are likely to review their risk controls, which could impact liquidity in the short term,” the report from Kaiko said."
453,223,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/28/ftx-fallout-continues-as-crypto-lender-blockfi-declares-bankruptcy/,BlockFi Files for Bankruptcy as FTX Contagion Spreads,BlockFi received a $400 million line of credit from FTX earlier this year.,2022-11-28,"Crypto lender BlockFi filed for bankruptcy protection Monday, days after suspending withdrawals amid the ongoing fallout from exchange FTX's bankruptcy filing.
The company said it was filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, indicating it hoped to restructure, continuing operations in the meantime. According to a press release, BlockFi has about $257 million in cash on hand. A Bermuda-based affiliate is also filing for liquidation, a similar process.
According to the company's petition, BlockFi's executives estimate the company has more than 100,000 creditors, and checked off the ranges. Executives estimate the company has between $1 billion and $10 billion in both assets and liabilities.
The company's largest creditors include West Realm Shires Inc., the legal name for FTX US, which has a $275 million unsecured claim, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which has a $30 million unsecured claim. The majority of the other top 50 creditors' names were not shared.
BlockFi's largest creditor is Ankura Trust Company, which the lender appears to have hired in February and now has a $730 million unsecured claim.
BlockFi, which suspended withdrawals a few weeks ago due to the ongoing confusion about FTX's assets, has had a rocky year. The company liquidated a large client earlier this year, and needed a line of credit from FTX to survive earlier this year. In announcing the suspension of withdrawals, BlockFi warned clients not to deposit any funds to its wallet or interest accounts.
The lender was set to raise funding at a $1 billion down round valuation in June, after raising $350 million at a $3 billion valuation in March 2021. As recently as last July, the company was looking to go public within the next year and a half, with a potential $500 million fundraise coming soon.
However, the company had to pay $100 million in February as part of a settlement with the SEC and several state regulators over allegations its high-yield crypto lending product violated state and federal securities laws. As part of the settlement, BlockFi also had to register its BlockFi Yield product with the SEC.
The company cut around a fifth of its workforce in June as the broader cryptocurrency market declined. The market capitalization – one measure of the overall value of the market – fell from over $3 trillion a year ago to $1 trillion by June.
After the collapse of Three Arrows Capital, BlockFi CEO Zac Prince announced that the company had to liquidate a large client, though he did not confirm whether it was Three Arrows or not. Shortly thereafter, crypto exchange FTX extended a $250 million credit facility to the lender, which later morphed into a $400 million credit facility that also gave FTX US the ability to acquire the lender.
However, FTX itself filed for bankruptcy in the second week of November, after days of speculation about whether it was fully liquid. The questions were sparked by a CoinDesk report revealing that much of FTX sister company Alameda's balance sheet was composed of an exchange token, FTT, issued by FTX, which later prompted Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao to announce he would liquidate his company's entire set of FTT holdings. FTX later suspended withdrawals.
Amid the confusion, BlockFi announced it would suspend withdrawals, saying it had some number of assets deposited on FTX and was still owed some of the credit FTX had extended.
UPDATE (Nov. 28, 2022, 18:00 UTC): Adds additional detail, updates headline, corrects that West Realm Shires is the legal name for FTX US."
454,446,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/29/first-mover-americas-blockfi-the-latest-chapter-11-in-ftx-saga/,First Mover Americas: BlockFi the Latest Chapter (11) in FTX Saga,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 29, 2022.",2022-11-29,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Crypto lender BlockFi filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday, saying it hoped to restructure while it continues its operations. BlockFi received a $400 million line of credit from bankrupt exchange FTX earlier this year and has about $257 million in cash on hand, according to a press release.
BlockFi sued FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried for his Robinhood Market shares on Monday. Bankman-Fried, through his Emergent Fidelity Technologies holding company, pledged his stake in the online trading company as collateral for a loan.
Crypto exchange Huobi’s token, HT, climbs 15% over the past 24 hours after the firm announced a partnership with the Commonwealth of Dominica. Blockchain developer Tron and DMC Labs will issue a national token called dominica coin (DMC) and a digital identity, or DID. Huobi will provide Dominica DID status to every registered user.
Crypto Bank Silvergate Says Its BlockFi Digital Asset Deposit Exposure Totals Less Than $20M
Crypto Exchange Kraken Settles Case With US Treasury Over Serving Customers in Iran
Ukraine Considering CBDC That Can Facilitate Crypto Trading"
455,691,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/29/first-mover-asia-ethereum-isnt-weth-or-steth-but-jokes-still-move-markets/,"First Mover Asia: Ethereum Isn’t wETH or stETH, but Jokes Still Move Markets","Sam Reynolds writes that irreverent posts about lesser-known altcoins – and more significant tokens – can be destructive, especially if people don’t get the irony. ALSO: Bitcoin drops as BlockFi files for bankruptcy protection.",2022-11-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Crypto prices rally late, despite crypto lender BlockFi filing for bankruptcy protection and ongoing protests in China over COVID-19 restrictions.
Insights: What's the price of irreverence on crypto Twitter? A joke about wrapped ether spooked investors.
Bitcoin Rallies Late Despite BlockFi Bankruptcy Protection Filing, China Protests
By James Rubin
Crypto markets spent much of Monday in the red before a late-day rally sent most major tokens into positive territory, even as the industry continued to process the dual body blows of crypto lender BlockFi's Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection filing and widespread protests in China over severe COVID-19 restrictions.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $16,250, up the better part of a percentage point over the previous 24 hours but still below its weekend perch of $16,500. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization's resilience dovetailed with a wider slowdown in asset activity of all stripes as the U.S. celebrated its annual Thanksgiving holiday and a lull in bad news related to crypto exchange FTX's implosion. The latter pause ended with BlockFi's petition.
""We need to see if there's going to be more contagion coming,"" Marco Sampaio, co-founder and CEO of Hashdex, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""We know the macro is also playing a role in this. The pressure coming from China is also putting pressure on crypto or risky assets in general.""
But Sampaio added cautiously: ""We need to see what's going to happen. We have many chapters to follow [in] the coming weeks.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,175, also up 1.3% from Sunday, same time. Ether's price fell roughly 3% earlier in the day after a ""whale"" address moved 73,224 ETH, worth $85.7 million, to Binance during Asia trading hours, according to an analysis by on-chain researcher Lookonchain. Investors typically transfer coins to centralized exchanges when they intend to sell or use the coins as a margin in derivatives trading.
Most other cryptos in the CoinDesk top 20 by market capitalization were recently trading in the green, with popular meme coin DOGE up more than 5%, continuing an almost week-long surge whose spark remains unclear. DOGE alternative SHIB was up about 3%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was roughly flat.
News of continued demonstrations in China, the world's second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization and hawkish remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve officials on Monday sent equity markets tumbling with the tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) closing off about 1.5%.
Hashdex's Sampaio noted that institutional investors focused on crypto's long-term potential have been less affected by the industry's recent debacles than companies that have been trading and are ""dis-allocating"" their assets. ""We know that markets come and go,"" he said. ""I would say 'give it time.' It's hurting now but we don't think that's going to be the scenario forever.""
What's the Price of Irreverence on Crypto Twitter
By Sam Reynolds
Over the weekend, an inside joke that wrapped ether (wETH) was on the verge of insolvency spooked crypto Twitter.
As a humble member of the crypto industry, I personnally have discussed with my BFF @VitalikButerin and together we will invest $2b into WEF to recover all the funds. Stay #SAFU! Stay strong! https://t.co/UmjtljyRNz
There's a joke going around about #WETH depending from #ETH. All the big names are playing with it including vitalik. I am not because I don't think joking about things that could get the silliest of users rekt is funny. Thus my jokes suck a bit more, but save more lives.
Crypto Twitter is understandably twitchy these days, given the rapid market-moving news cycle of the last month. With so many institutions in the crypto economy on the verge of insolvency, the failure of another wouldn’t be surprising. Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO), protocols and everything in between seem to have been drained or hacked in the last few months.
So when a joke popped up suggesting wETH might be next, the gallows humor was apparently real-sounding enough to be taken seriously by some readers without their guards up.
Ether sank 4.8% in the ensuing 24 hours, outpacing bitcoin’s drop, although there’s no proof that the decline stemmed from the gag. Token price drops often stem from different factors.
More to the point: The idea of wETH failing is really not something that would happen, at least in any traditional sense.
What is wETH?
First, we need to understand what wETH is. The ""w"" in wETH stands for ""wrapped,"" which means a token representing a fixed amount of another token, usually on a one-to-one basis. ""Wrapping"" is often used to describe representing assets on a different blockchain, as when ""wrapped"" BTC (wBTC) is created to represent bitcoin (BTC) on Ethereum (though wBTC and wETH are very, very different creatures). Wrapping an ether token on the Ethereum network might seem strange then.
To summarize a long, technical problem: Ether, the token, doesn’t support the ERC-20 standard that virtually every decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol uses. Ether came before ERC-20; it’s Windows 3.1 in the era of apps and smartphones. So instead of fixing ether, it’s faster to just wrap it in a modern ERC-20 token.
But it still is, in essence, another form of ether on the Ethereum blockchain.
Why can’t wETH go insolvent?
Unlike staked ether (stETH), or bridge protocols that allow you to “transport” tokens to different protocols (i.e., sending Solana-based tokens to Ethereum via Wormhole), wETH doesn’t have a centralized entity. Immutable, open-source smart contracts govern how wETH and ETH interact, and it’s simple to confirm that the wETH contract is fully backed at any given moment. There’s a risk that the smart contracts behind wETH could be hacked. WETH is pegged 1:1, and thanks to block explorers you can easily validate this.
It’s transparent, decentralized and all on the same chain. So there’s basically near-zero risk and a depeg is really an issue, even if wETH might trade at a slight discount to ETH from time to time in digital-asset markets.
Provided that it’s always possible to unwrap ether, which the smart contracts will do without a centralized authority, wETH will continue to properly function.
Data from Dune Analytics shows there was a spike in unwraps over the weekend as the joke went viral.
To be sure, this isn’t a bank run. Given that wETH currently trades at a slight discount to ETH, this might have generated more revenue for the protocol. For traders, the annoyance would primarily be from the gas fees. People might have lost $100, not their entire life savings.
Sometimes jokes go too far
WETH is a confusing topic. In theory there shouldn’t be a need for it, and eventually Ethereum will evolve to the point where it won’t be needed.
But this is less to do with wETH and more to do with how a news cycle based on flashy tweets can cause panic. This joke was a complicated one that required a reader to have the technical context to properly understand it, and to find it funny. In the twitchy world of Crypto Twitter, it’s easy to misfire.
4:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(8:00 UTC) Switzerland's Gross Domestic Product s.a. (QoQ)
9:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:00 UTC) European Union's Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (YoY/Nov)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) Canada's Gross Domestic Product Annualized (Q3)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bahamian Attorney General Defends Actions in FTX Case; Bitcoin and Ether Trade Lower
Bitcoin and ether were trading lower as fears over FTX contagion and Federal Reserve rate hikes continued to weigh on markets. Hashdex CEO Marcelo Sampaio shared his crypto markets outlook. Nikhilesh De had the latest from the Bahamas where Attorney General Ryan Pinder is speaking out on the FTX case and drawing attention to his prior role at a bank with ties to FTX. Plus, a time of transition for Time's Keith Grossman who joined ""First Mover"" to discuss his upcoming job at MoonPay.
BlockFi Files for Bankruptcy as FTX Contagion Spreads: BlockFi received a $400 million line of credit from FTX earlier this year.
Wrapped Bitcoin Trades at Discount Amid Market Contagion: WBTC’s discount dropped to as low as 1.5% as questions swirled over whether the token is fully backed. Custodian BitGo clarified that it is.
Buy the Dip, Sell the Bounce, Crypto Funds Have Biggest Outflows in 12 Weeks: Total asset under management (AUM) in digital-asset funds dropped to a new two-year low of $22.2 billion, according to CoinShares.
Centralized Crypto Exchanges Will Remain Dominant Despite FTX Collapse, JPMorgan: DeFi protocols rely heavily on centralized exchanges to be able to function, and it would likely take a long time until price discovery shifts from centralized to decentralized exchanges, the bank's analysts said.
Ethereum Staking-as-a-Service Startup Kiln Raises $17.6M: The Paris-based firm is betting on the growth of staking services after Ethereum's Merge."
456,115,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/29/blockfi-has-355m-in-crypto-frozen-on-ftx-attorney-confirms/,"BlockFi Has $355M in Crypto Frozen on FTX, Attorney Confirms",Kirkland & Ellis Partner Joshua Sussberg announced the figure during BlockFi’s first bankruptcy hearing.,2022-11-29,"Crypto lender BlockFi has about $355 million in cryptocurrencies currently frozen on crypto exchange FTX, attorney Joshua Sussberg told a U.S. bankruptcy court on Tuesday.
The $355 million is on top of another $671 million in loan to FTX sister company Alameda Research. Alameda has defaulted on the loan as well.
BlockFi filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey on Monday after weeks of speculation about the company’s solvency after it paused withdrawals earlier in November. The lender had been relying on a $400 million line of credit from crypto exchange FTX, which itself filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this month after doubts emerged about its own solvency following a CoinDesk report revealing Alameda held a large amount of FTX’s exchange token, FTT.
In its first-day filing, BlockFi indicated that it had somewhere between $1 billion and $10 billion in total assets, as well as between $1 billion and $10 billion in liabilities. The lender has north of 100,000 creditors, and about $257 million in cash on hand, some of which it generated by liquidating crypto holdings.
BlockFi does hope to let customers holding their own assets in the BlockFi Wallet product to withdraw their funds, said Sussberg, a partner at law firm Kirkland & Ellis.
“We intend, Your Honor, as we noted in the pleadings, to quickly file a motion to allow customers to withdraw from their personal wallet to the extent they so wish, because we do not believe that is property of the estate,” he said.
This plan is subject to the formation of a creditor’s committee, he said.
Sussberg told Judge Michael Kaplan that he anticipates the process of recovering BlockFi’s funds from FTX will “play out over a long period of time.”
Whether those funds will be recoverable is another question entirely.
Sussberg told the judge that FTX has over 1 million creditors, and it suffered a reported hack the day of its bankruptcy filing on Nov. 11 that drained hundreds of millions of dollars worth of crypto out of FTX-controlled wallets.
BlockFi’s lawyers emphasized that, though both BlockFi and FTX have filed for bankruptcy protection during the market downturn, that’s where the similarities end.
“This is the antithesis of FTX,” Sussberg said of BlockFi’s liquidity crisis. “This is a complete 180-degree different story.”
Sussberg referenced current FTX CEO John Jay Ray III’s statement that he had never seen “such a complete failure” of FTX’s executive leadership in his career – which included cleaning up after Enron’s collapse.
BlockFi’s co-founders, Zac Prince and Flori Marquez, Sussberg told the court, were the opposite of Bankman-Fried.
“These are self-made individuals … [who] built the company with their own hands,” Sussberg said. “This company was on a rocket ship.”
Both Prince and Marquez were in attendance during the first hearing."
457,1033,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/29/solanas-top-crypto-wallet-looks-to-ethereum-polygon-next/,"Solana’s Top Crypto Wallet Phantom Looks to Ethereum, Polygon Next",Solana-focused crypto wallet Phantom is tapping Ethereum and Polygon for its expansion plan.,2022-11-29,"Phantom, the leading crypto wallet in the Solana ecosystem, said Tuesday it will add support for assets on the Ethereum and Polygon blockchains, with the roll out coming over the next three months, according to a representative.
The self-custody wallet, which is built on closed-source code, will take aim at Ethereum ecosystem stalwarts such as Metamask, which is open source. Phantom’s likely bet is that its slick user interface will power it forward on the system, just as it did for Solana, where it says it has 3 million active users.
The face-off has been a long time coming. CEO Brandon Millman previously told CoinDesk that Phantom’s team meant to challenge Ethereum wallets in 2021 before doubling down to the then-nascent Solana ecosystem, where it became a go-to wallet for many retail users.
Solana’s short-term prospects have shifted mightily in recent days. This month’s sudden collapse of FTX and Alameda, major supporters of the ecosystem, triggered a drop in Solana-linked asset prices and cast chaos among the blockchain's builders. Some projects are now planning to pivot to other ecosystems. A representative for Phantom said the wallet remains committed to Solana.
Phantom’s multichain strategy will focus on non-fungible tokens (NFT), with protections against malicious spam drops and added capabilities for viewing multimedia NFTs, a press release said.
Phantom is working with Polygon on the Polygon wallet, the release said."
458,1032,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/29/why-do-crypto-lenders-keep-blowing-up/,Why Do Crypto Lenders Keep Blowing Up?,"Liquidity issues at BlockFi, Genesis, Celsius and other lending firms have tarnished this once-promising growth sector. But not all crypto lenders are created equal.",2022-11-29,"What is happening with crypto lenders? The bear market has strained every corner of the crypto industry, but perhaps none more than businesses involved in crypto lending. You know the names already: BlockFi, Celsius Network and Genesis Global Trading.
There are more, but these once-highly respected firms represent some of the most embarrassing upsets of this year. They all have something in common: loans against digital assets. What went wrong? And can centralized crypto lenders ever regain market share and trust?
Crypto lending is the process of linking people who have excess crypto and want to earn yield on their money by depositing it on a platform, which lends those funds out to people who want to borrow crypto and are willing to leave collateral and pay interest to take out a loan.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
In other words? “Crypto lending is essentially banking – for the crypto world,” as Reuters put it early this year. And as Lisa of “The Simpsons” once said, most comparisons are problematic.
Before the market downturn, lending was big business for the crypto industry. Celsius, sometimes called a “neobank,” accrued over $11 billion assets on its platform. BlockFi, which recently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, had been valued at $3 billion just last year. Genesis, a Wall Street-facing firm owned by CoinDesk’s parent company, Digital Currency Group, had $2.8 billion in active loans at the end of the third quarter of this year (down from $11.1 billion the same quarter a year earlier).
See also: Bankrupt Crypto Lender BlockFi Sues Bankman-Fried
Crypto lenders grew so large, in part, by offering high yields to depositors. While a bank account may earn less than 1% in interest, some crypto lenders offered returns as high as 20%. Even at the frothiest moment of the bull run, people were curious about where those returns came from.
Like banks, crypto lenders were supposed to generate profits from deposits by loaning that money out. Borrowers would pay typically between 5%-10% in fees, and crypto lenders like Celsius were supposed to make profit on the spread between interest payments paid to depositors and fees earned by borrowers.
As we learned this year, even when things go well for crypto lenders they can quickly turn south. Volatility in the markets put pressure on crypto lenders’ normal businesses – including shrinking the number of depositors and borrowers. Faced with increasing withdrawals, many were found to have been illiquid or insolvent.
But we also learned that lenders were engaging in potentially illegal behavior by re-loaning (or rehypothicating) funds they shouldn’t have, or making generally ill-advised bets. In a filing, Vermont’s securities regulator said Celsius at times resembled a Ponzi scheme in that it relied on attracting new investors to pay out old ones. It did that by offering rewards programs tied to its CEL token and using its marketing budget to pay yields well above standard. (The latter practice also happened at FTX’s “earn” program and the Anchor protocol, a decentralized lender built on Terra, another of 2022’s big failures.)
Of course, not all crypto lenders are created equal and not all of these firms went broke for the same reasons. Nor is there any reason to suspect other crypto lenders necessarily abused client funds. Because these are private companies by and large, it’s also not totally clear as to what went wrong.
There are increasing calls to regulate crypto, which could be a good thing for the industry. Although Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance (which guarantees up to $250,000 in bank deposits) is unlikely to be approved for crypto lenders, there could be increased regulatory supervision to make sure these companies better manage deposits to stay solvent.
It’s worth also noting that the crypto lenders grouped under the decentralized finance (DeFi) sub-economy fared better. These platforms generally require users to overcollateralize their loans, and they prevent human actors from taking possession of deposits because they’re non-custodial. While crypto lenders can make sweetheart deals with supposedly trustworthy individuals, in DeFi everyone plays by the same rules.
See also: DeFi Giant MakerDAO Voting on Hiking DAI Stablecoin Rewards"
459,789,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/29/a16z-leads-15m-round-for-game-studio-roboto-games/,A16z Leads $15M Round for Game Studio Roboto Games,"The studio, which was founded by Web2 veterans, plans to add Web3 elements to its forthcoming survival/crafting MMO game.",2022-11-29,"Roboto Games, a new game studio aiming to bridge Web2 experience and accessible Web3 in-game elements, has raised $15 million in a Series A funding round led by noted venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), which launched its first game-focused fund in May with a $600 million commitment. The round shows that funding continues to trickle into crypto sectors despite the global bear market and the recent implosion of crypto exchange FTX and its continuing aftermath.
The funding will go toward building out the company’s second game and hiring across a variety of roles, including artists and marketers, Roboto Games founders Curt Bererton and Mathilde Pignol told CoinDesk in an interview. Other participants in the round included Ancient8, Animoca Brands, Gumi Cryptos Capital, Harrison Metal Capital, Makers Fund, Merit Circle, Transcend and a number of angel investors. Total funding now stands at $19.5 million to date, including a 2019 seed round.
Headquartered in San Mateo, Calif., Roboto Games aims to make free-to-play games that are playable across web, mobile and PC and can be played with or without Web3 elements such as non-fungible tokens (NFT) – or in-game elements coded to prove their uniqueness – or regular tokens. There are also plans for a user-generated content (UGC) platform.
Roboto Games has already released the fast-moving battle game Last Mage Standing, which has a few million players, according to Bererton. However, the team is primarily focused on the development of a survival/crafting massively multiplayer online (MMO) game that’s codenamed Foragers and Fighters, with plans to launch an initial playable version of the game in the first quarter of 2023. The game – described as Minecraft meets Genshin Impact – will feature character collection and asset crafting aspects but will initially lack Web3 elements by design.
“We want to make sure that we have the game core solidified and it's working well and it's really fun first before we launch any sort of NFTs or tokens associated with the project,” explained Bererton. “Because, for example, if we change a big aspect of the game, we don't want those NFTs to be invalidated by some design change that we make.”
In 2007, the team behind Roboto Games created ZipZapPlay, which made 20 social Facebook games including Baking Life and a UGC platform with over 200,000 games on it. They sold the company to PopCap a few months before Electronic Arts acquired PopCap in July 2011.
The free-to-play games made by ZipZapPlay require actively managed servers, which eventually went offline and made the games unplayable. Roboto Games therefore sees blockchain technology as a way to prevent future game deaths. If a Roboto game one day shuts down, the team could simply turn the code over to the players to continue on, noted Pignol.
“Something that I think is not covered a lot in Web3 media is the permanence of the data behind the blockchain, and what that can allow you to do,” said Bererton.
Read more: The Gaming Industry Doesn’t Need Web3, but Gamers Might"
460,180,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/30/ftxs-collapse-was-a-crime-not-an-accident/,"FTX’s Collapse Was a Crime, Not an Accident","Sam Bankman-Fried is a con man and fraudster of historic proportions. But you might not learn that from the New York Times, CoinDesk's Chief Insights Columnist David Z. Morris writes.",2022-11-30,"In the weeks since Sam Bankman-Fried’s cryptocurrency empire was revealed to be a house of lies, mainstream news organizations and commentators have often failed to give their readers a straightforward assessment of exactly what happened. August institutions including the New York Times and Wall Street Journal have uncovered many key facts about the scandal, but they have also repeatedly seemed to downplay the facts in ways that soft-pedaled Bankman-Fried’s intent and culpability.
David Z. Morris is CoinDesk's chief insights columnist.
It is now clear that what happened at the FTX crypto exchange and the hedge fund Alameda Research involved a variety of conscious and intentional fraud intended to steal money from both users and investors. That’s why a recent New York Times interview was widely derided for seeming to frame FTX’s collapse as the result of mismanagement rather than malfeasance. A Wall Street Journal article bemoaned the loss of charitable donations from FTX, arguably propping up Bankman-Fried’s strategic philanthropic pose. Vox co-founder Matthew Yglesias, court chronicler of the neoliberal status quo, seemed to whitewash his own entanglements by crediting Bankman-Fried’s money with helping Democrats in the 2020 elections – sidestepping the likelihood that the money was effectively embezzled.
Perhaps most perniciously, many outlets have described what happened to FTX as a “bank run” or a “run on deposits,” while Bankman-Fried has repeatedly insisted the company was simply overleveraged and disorganized. Both of these attempts to frame the fallout obfuscate the core issue: the misuse of customer funds.
Banks can be hit by “bank runs” because they are explicitly in the business of lending customer funds out to generate returns. They can experience a short-term cash crunch if everyone withdraws at the same time, without there being any long-term problem.
But FTX and other crypto exchanges are not banks. They do not (or should not) do bank-style lending, so even a very acute surge of withdrawals should not create a liquidity strain. FTX had specifically promised customers it would never lend out or otherwise use the crypto they entrusted to the exchange.
See also: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried's Crypto Empire Blur on Alameda's Balance Sheet
In reality, the funds were sent to the intimately linked trading firm Alameda Research, where they were, it seems, simply gambled away. This is, in the simplest terms, theft at a nearly unprecedented scale. While the total losses have yet to be quantified, up to one million customers could be impacted, according to a bankruptcy document.
In less than a month, reporting and the bankruptcy process have uncovered a laundry list of further decisions and practices that would constitute financial fraud if FTX had been a U.S. regulated entity – even without any crypto-specific rules at play. Insofar as they enabled the effective theft of the property of American citizens, these ploys may still be litigated in U.S. courts.
The list is very, very long.
At the heart of Bankman-Fried’s fraud are the deep and (literally) intimate ties between FTX, the exchange that enticed retail speculators, and Alameda Research, a hedge fund that Bankman-Fried co-founded. While an exchange ultimately makes money from transaction fees on assets that belong to users, a hedge fund like Alameda seeks to profit from actively trading or investing funds it controls.
Bankman-Fried himself described FTX and Alameda as being “wholly separate” entities. To reinforce that impression, Bankman-Fried stepped down as CEO of Alameda in 2019. But it has emerged that the two operations remained deeply tied. Not only did executives at Alameda and FTX often work out of the same Bahamian penthouse, but Bankman-Fried and Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison were romantically linked.
Those circumstances likely enabled Bankman-Fried’s cardinal sin. Within days of FTX’s first signs of weakness, it became clear that the exchange had been funneling customer assets to Alameda for use in trading, lending and investing activities. On Nov. 12, Reuters made the stunning report that as much as $10 billion in user funds had been sent from FTX to Alameda. At the time, it was believed that as little as $2 billion of those funds had disappeared after being sent to Alameda. Now the losses appear to have been much higher.
It remains unclear precisely why those funds were sent to Alameda, or when Bankman-Fried first crossed the proverbial Rubicon to betray his depositors’ trust. On-chain analysis has found the bulk of movements from FTX to Alameda took place in late 2021, and bankruptcy filings have revealed that FTX and Alameda lost $3.7 billion in 2021.
This is maybe the most befuddling part of the Bankman-Fried story: His companies lost massive amounts of money before the 2022 crypto bear market even started. They may have been stealing funds long before the blowups of Terra and Three Arrows Capital that mortally wounded so many other leveraged crypto players.
The initial spark that set FTX and Alameda Research on fire was CoinDesk reporting on the portion of Alameda’s balance sheet made up of the FTX exchange token, FTT. This instrument was created by FTX, but only a tiny portion of it was traded in public markets, with FTX and Alameda holding the vast majority. This meant those holdings were effectively illiquid – impossible to sell at the open market price. Nonetheless, Bankman-Fried accounted for its value at that fictitious market price.
More dangerously still, FTT tokens are widely believed to have been used as collateral for loans, including loans of customer funds from FTX to Alameda. This is where the close ties between FTX and Alameda became truly toxic: Had they been genuinely independent firms, the FTT token might have been much more difficult or expensive to use as collateral, reducing the risk to customer funds.
This use of an in-house asset as collateral for loans between clandestinely related entities can be best compared to the accounting fraud committed by executives at Enron in the 1990s. Those executives served as much as 12 years in prison for their crimes.
In legal filings by the new CEO handling FTX’s bankruptcy and liquidation, it was reported that Alameda Research had special status as a user on FTX: a “secret exemption” from the platform’s liquidation and margin trading rules.
FTX, like other crypto platforms and some conventional equity or commodity services, offered users “margin,” or loans, that they could use to make trades. However, these loans are generally collateralized – that is, users put up other funds or assets to back their borrowing. If the value of that collateral drops, or a margin trade loses enough money, the user’s collateral will be sold and the exchange will use that money to pay off the initial loan.
Liquidating bad margin positions is fundamental to keeping asset markets solvent. Exempting Alameda from these standards would give it huge advantages, while exposing other FTX users to immense hidden risks. Alameda could have kept losing positions open until they turned around, while competing users were closed out. Alameda was also in theory free to lose more money on FTX than it was able to pay back, leaving a hole where customer funds had been.
The exemption could be considered criminal from a number of angles. Above all, it means that FTX as a whole was fraudulently marketed. Rather than the even playing field an exchange is meant to be, it was a barrel full of customers.
Above them all, with shotgun poised, was Alameda Research.
According to the crypto analytics firm Argus, there is strong circumstantial evidence that Alameda Research had insider access to information about FTX’s plans to list particular tokens. Because an exchange listing usually has a positive impact on the price of a token, Alameda was able to buy large amounts of these tokens before the listing, then sell them after the listing bump.
If these claims prove out, they would be perhaps the most obviously and brazenly criminal of the reported hanky-panky between Alameda and FTX. Setting jurisdictional questions to one side, the actions could be pursued under insider trading laws, even if the tokens concerned aren’t formally classed as securities.
In a similar situation earlier this year, an OpenSea employee was charged with wire fraud for allegedly buying assets based on early listing information … or insider trading. For the crime of merely front-running monkey JPEGs, that employee faces up to 20 years in prison.
Executives at FTX reportedly received a total of $4.1 billion in loans from Alameda Research, including massive personal loans that were likely unsecured. As revealed by bankruptcy proceedings, Bankman-Fried received an incredible $1 billion in personal loans, as well as a $2.3 billion loan to an entity called Paper Bird in which he had 75% control. Director of Engineering Nishad Singh was given a loan of $543 million, while FTX Digital Markets co-CEO Ryan Salame received a $55 million personal loan.
The FTX situation has more smoking guns than a shooting range in Texas, but you might call this one the smoking bazooka – a glaringly obvious sign of criminal intent. It’s still unclear how the bulk of those personal loans were used, but clawing the expenditures back will likely be a major task for liquidators.
The loans to Paper Bird were arguably even more worrying because they appear to have fueled more structural fraud by creating yet another related third party to shuffle assets between. Forbes has posited that some of the Paper Bird funds may have gone to buy part of Binance’s stake in FTX, and Paper Bird also committed hundreds of millions of dollars to various outside investments.
See also: Who's Who in the FTX Inner Circle
That included many of the same venture capital funds that backed FTX. It will take time to sort out whether this financial incest constituted criminal fraud. But it certainly matches the broader pattern by which Bankman-Fried used secretive flows, leverage and funny money to deceptively prop up the value of various assets.
Speaking of which. In the summer of 2022, as the crypto bear market continued, Bankman-Fried emerged as a white knight, proposing bailouts of entities including bankrupt crypto lenders BlockFi and Voyager Digital. This was a moment when we at CoinDesk were among the deceived, welcoming SBF as a J.P. Morgan-style backstopper of the entire sector.
In a now infamous interview with CNBC’s “Squawk Box,” Bankman-Fried danced around the issue of where FTX got the cash for these backstops, and referred to these decisions as bets that may or may not pay off.
But that may not have been what was going on at all. In a recent column, Bloomberg’s Matt Levine hypothesized that FTX backstopped BlockFi using its FTT funny money. This Monopoly bailout may, in turn, have been intended to conceal FTX and Alameda liabilities that would have been exposed earlier if BlockFi had gone bankrupt sooner. There’s not even really a name for this ploy, but it echoes the end stages of many other corporate frauds.
Examiners have discovered that Alameda Research invested $11.5 million into the miniscule Farmington State Bank community bank, an amount more than double the bank’s prior net worth. This may be illegal even in a vacuum: As both a non-U.S. entity and an investing firm, Alameda should have cleared a number of regulatory hurdles before it could acquire a controlling interest in a U.S. bank.
In the broader context of the FTX story, the bank stake goes from “questionably legal” to “incredibly ominous.” Controlling a U.S. bank could have allowed Alameda and FTX to engage in any number of further shenanigans. Compare this, for instance, to attempts to buy U.S. banks by the Pakistan-founded Bank for Credit and Commerce International, which U.S. regulators repeatedly blocked. BCCI turned out to be an even more nefarious entity than FTX, and wanted to buy U.S. banks to bolster its global criminal money laundering empire.
These are complex and in many cases nuanced forms of fraud – largely echoing, it must be said, well-established models in the traditional finance world. That obscurity is one reason Bankman-Fried was able to masquerade as an honest player, and has likely helped keep coverage softer even after the collapse.
Bankman-Fried had also crafted a scruffy, nerdy image hard to square with malevolent thievery – not unlike other 21st century luminaries like Mark Zuckerberg and Adam Neumann. In interviews, he talked a stream of nonsense tailored to snowjob outsiders about an industry that’s already full of jargon and complicated tech. He cultivated political and social influence through a web of strategic donations and insincere ideological statements.
See also: How Sam Bankman-Fried's 'Effective' Altruism Blew Up FTX | Opinion
Since his con collapsed, Bankman-Fried has continued to muddy the waters with carefully disingenuous letters, statements, interviews and tweets. He has attempted to portray himself as a well-intentioned but naïve kid who got in over his head and made a few miscalculations. This is a softer but more pernicious version of the crisis management approach Donald Trump learned from the black-hat mob lawyer Roy Cohn: Instead of “deny, deny, deny,” Bankman-Fried has decided to “confuse, evade, distort.”
And it has, to a significant degree, worked. Mainstream voices still parroting Bankman-Fried’s counterfactual talking points include Kevin O’Leary, who portrays an investor on the reality show ""Shark Tank."" In a Nov. 27 interview with Business Insider, O’Leary described Bankman-Fried as a “savant” and “probably one of the most accomplished traders of crypto in the world” – despite recent data implying immense trading losses even when times were good.
O’Leary’s status as an investor in, and formerly paid spokesperson for, FTX (we sure hope those checks clear, Kevin!) explain his continued affection for Bankman-Fried in the face of mounting contradictory evidence. But he is far from alone in burnishing Bankman-Fried’s image. The disgraced failed son of two Stanford University law professors will be handed the opportunity to defend himself onstage at the New York Times’ DealBook Summit Wednesday.
The scale and complexity of Bankman-Fried’s fraud and theft appear to rival those of Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff and Malaysian embezzler Jho Low. Whether consciously or through malign ineptitude, the fraud also echoes much larger corporate scandals such as Worldcom and, particularly, Enron.
See also: The Perverse Impacts of the Anti-Money-Laundering System | Opinion
The principals in all of those scandals wound up either sentenced to prison or on the run from the law. Sam Bankman-Fried clearly deserves to share their fate."
461,898,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/30/after-months-at-arms-length-senates-brown-opens-door-for-crypto-legislation/,"After Months at Arm’s Length, Sen. Brown Opens Door for Crypto Legislation",The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee – the missing ingredient in previous efforts – has invited Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen to start working with him on legislation.,2022-11-30,"U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, has widely been seen as the linchpin of legislation to set up oversight of the cryptocurrency industry. While his crypto suspicions have been clear in hearings, his plans for specific bills remained quiet until now.
Brown sent a letter Wednesday to U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, for the first time outlining his willingness to work on legislation and the broad strokes of what that legislation should look like – including that the approach must be comprehensive and rope in all the relevant financial agencies.
“Single regulatory agencies currently generally do not have a comprehensive view of crypto asset entities’ activities,” Brown argued in his letter, which highlighted the findings of a report from the Financial Stability Oversight Council led by Yellen, including its recommendation for legislation that would “create authorities for regulators to have visibility into, and otherwise supervise, the activities of the affiliates and subsidiaries of crypto-asset entities.”
He said he wants to “work on such legislation,” especially in light of the collapse of crypto exchange FTX that destroyed many Americans’ investments.
While the work on legislation is underway, he said U.S. financial agencies should keep up vigorous enforcement actions and “take on the significant noncompliance with current law among crypto-asset firms.”
Brown’s remarks, however, don't reveal his views on existing legislative efforts. His position on a bill to regulate stablecoins, for instance, will be key, because such a bill – like those being negotiated in the House Financial Services Committee and by other lawmakers on his committee – will likely need his support. Brown hasn’t openly shared his view on more comprehensive efforts, such as the proposals from leading members of the Senate Agriculture Committee.
Meanwhile, at his committee’s hearing on nominations for Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board members on Wednesday, Brown again made his crypto suspicions clear.
“We can't let thousands of risky and volatile assets that are used only for speculation and sanctions evasion into our banking system, and we know that it’s a national security issue,” Brown said.
Yellen said at a separate event on Wednesday that the drama over FTX proves that this industry needs to have strong rules, “and it doesn’t.”
“To the extent that the crypto world could deliver faster, cheaper, safer transactions, we should be open to financial innovation,” she said at the New York Times' Dealbook Summit in New York. “That said, that's not what most of it has been about.”
Brown asked the nominees at Wednesday’s hearing, “Is there any public purpose to crypto right now?”
“Right now, most of the public promise of crypto is for the future,” said Travis Hill, a Republican who President Joe Biden nominated to be the FDIC board’s vice chairman. “As of today, most of that is theoretical and not part of everyday life.”
For his part, another Republican board nominee, Jonathan McKernan, suggested that the FDIC – one of the three primary U.S. banking regulators – may not be as relevant as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for directing crypto oversight.
“There are some significant open questions as to what is a permissible activity when it comes to crypto at a bank,” McKernan said. “I think there is a role for the market regulators to play in continuing to define the rules of the road in this space, and the banks will need to similarly comply with that law.""
The hearing otherwise revealed a position solidifying among some Democrats on digital assets. Apart from Brown’s views, other Democrats also argued against exposing the banking system to cryptocurrency risks.
“I don't think crypto passes the smell test,” said Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.). “I don't want to give it credibility by regulation.”
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) may have been the hearing’s loudest anti-crypto voice, though.
“If the crypto boosters had gotten their wish and a bunch of banks that the FDIC insures were all-in on crypto – for example, holding FTX’s tokens on their balance sheets or accepting crypto tokens as collateral for loans – would our banking system be less safe than it is today?""
“I would think so,” said Martin Gruenberg, the FDIC’s acting chairman who is nominated to again be its chairman. “The failure of those firms was really limited to the crypto space and ended up not impacting the insured banking system.”"
462,687,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/30/crypto-markets-today-kraken-becomes-the-latest-industry-giant-to-cut-its-workforce/,Crypto Markets Today: Kraken Becomes the Latest Industry Giant to Cut Its Workforce,The crypto exchange is cutting 30% of its global staff. ALSO: Bitcoin surges along with equity markets on the Federal Reserve Chair’s dovish tone in a speech Wednesday.,2022-11-30,"Crypto exchange Kraken is laying off 30% of its global staff – around 1,100 people – in response to the crypto market downturn, the company said Wednesday.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
""Since the start of this year, macroeconomic and geopolitical factors have weighed on financial markets. This resulted in significantly lower trading volumes and fewer client sign-ups,"" Kraken said in a blog post.
The crypto market has sunk this year, with bitcoin (BTC) losing 63% of its value since the end of 2021 and the total crypto market cap down by more than two-thirds in the past 12 months.
Companies that ramped up staffing levels during the preceding boom years have had to cut back during the decline. This month alone, publicly traded exchange Coinbase (COIN) trimmed 60 positions, and Unchained Capital, a bitcoin financial-services firm, shed more than 600.
As recently as June, Kraken said it was looking to expand as other companies laid off staff, flooding the market with experienced labor, saying it wanted to hire another 500 people.
Crypto prices rise: Bitcoin (BTC) cracked the $17,000 threshold for the first time since the early part of November. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $17,060, up 3.6% over the past 24 hours. Ether (ETH), the second-largest crypto in market value, was recently changing hands just below $1,300, a 6.6% gain from Tuesday, same time. Other cryptos were largely moving upward, with UNI, the token of the smart contracts-based Uniswap platform, up more than 6% and popular meme coin DOGE rising more than 3%.
But November is dismal: Bitcoin fell in value by more than 18% for the month and ether tumbled 21% amid the collapse of crypto exchange giant FTX and the ensuing fallout. FTX filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection little more than a week after CoinDesk reported irregularities on the balance sheet of its trading arm Alameda Capital, and other companies with exposure to FTX have been forced into survival mode. Still, a few tokens soared above the mess, including BAND and LTC, which jumped 57% and 38%, respectively.
Equity markets enjoyed a memorable day as investors, buoyed by Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s dovish remarks at the Brookings Institution’s Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy on Wednesday, sent the tech-heavy Nasdaq up 4.4%, and the S&P 500, which has a strong technology component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average rising 3% and 2.1%, respectively. Brent crude oil, a measure of energy markets, sank 0.2%.
A key tone shift in crypto markets during the month was just how dramatically they diverged from the path of traditional markets. Stocks rose as investors processed speculation that the Federal Reserve might slow the pace of interest rate hikes as soon as December. The S&P 500 is up 2.2% in November, while gold climbed 7.8%.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at what broke in crypto this year and why it's not your fault.
US Prosecutors Charge 21 Alleged ‘Money Mules’ With Using Crypto to Launder Proceeds of Cybercrimes
IBM and Australian Stock Market’s Blockchain Projects Failed, a Blow to Private Ledgers
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg Still 'Long-Term Optimistic' on Metaverse
The Ethereum Foundation Commences Shutdown of Ropsten Testnet
Fed Likely to Raise Rates by 50 Basis Points in December; Bitcoin Jumps
After Months at Arm’s Length, Sen. Brown Opens Door for Crypto Legislation"
463,693,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/30/broker-dealer-inx-digital-bids-to-purchase-voyager-assets/,Broker-Dealer INX Digital Bids to Purchase Voyager Assets,"The firm joins a number of other suitors, Binance among them.",2022-11-30,"Broker-dealer and crypto trading platform INX Digital has entered the bidding contest for the assets of bankrupt cryptocurrency lender Voyager Digital, announcing a nonbinding letter of intent Wednesday.
The firm joins other suitors, including crypto exchange Binance, which CoinDesk reported earlier this month was preparing to bid for the lending platform. CEO Changpeng Zhao subsequently confirmed the story.
Voyager's July bankruptcy filing in the U.S. Southern District Court of New York was quickly followed by a bidding war for its assets. FTX won that battle, but the bidding reopened following that exchange's own bankruptcy two weeks ago.
INX unveiled its INX One platform in September, intended to allow trading of cryptocurrencies as well as security tokens that are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Last year, INX became the first company to complete a security token offering registered with the SEC. The offering raised $85 million from more than 7,000 investors.
Read more: Understanding the FTX Fallout From the Eyes of a Bitcoiner"
464,696,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/30/blockchain-protocol-komodo-introduces-three-in-one-wallet-cross-chain-bridge-and-dex/,"Blockchain Protocol Komodo Offering Three-In-One Wallet, Cross-Chain Bridge and DEX","Named AtomicDEX Web, the service is intended to be accessed through any internet browser.",2022-11-30,"Blockchain protocol Komodo has launched AtomicDEX Web – a wallet, cross-chain bridge and decentralized exchange (DEX).
Unlike centralized exchanges (CEXs), a DEX relies on smart contracts and liquidity pools to allow its users to trade cryptocurrencies in a permissionless manner.
Komodo’s three-in-one product is intended to be accessed through any internet browser and connect with over 60 blockchains including Ethereum, Polygon, Avalanche, BNB Chain and Cosmos.
“Most internet users spend all day opening and closing new tabs, so the wallet and crypto experience should be integrated with the way we already use the internet, rather than asking users to download browser extensions or additional software to access their funds,” said Komodo Chief Technology Officer Kadan Stadelmann. “Crypto should be as easy as opening a new tab from any device, on any operating system, while still being your own custodian of your funds.”
The introduction of this DEX comes at a shaky time for the crypto ecosystem, which is still reeling from the collapse of centralized exchange FTX. Stadelmann told CoinDesk that he believes the downfall of the FTX exchange has highlighted the need for DEXs that give users the ability to control their own funds without any middleman. “Why would you like to give someone control over your crypto?” he said. “If you want to trade, you can do this in a peer-to-peer decentralized and cryptographic way in a trustless fashion.”
AtomicDEX Web’s goal is to eventually integrate with any electronic device, so any future technology could be used for wallet storage and trading.
In March, Komodo launched ShibaDEX, which lets its users trade shiba inu tokens (SHIB) for other cryptos.
Read more: Komodo’s ‘ShibaDEX’ Lets Users Trade Shiba Inu for Tokens on Other Chains"
465,120,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/30/sec-could-use-blockfi-as-object-lesson-for-clear-crypto-regulation-says-ex-sec-official/,"SEC Could Use BlockFi as Object Lesson for Clear Crypto Regulation, Says Ex-SEC Official",Howard Fischer discusses why the SEC is more concerned with setting standards than getting the $30 million owed by the failed lender.,2022-11-30,"The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may use the failure of lender BlockFi as an object lesson for why there should be clear oversight of the crypto sector.
And, by the way, BlockFi still owes $30 million of a $50 million fine.
According to Howard Fischer, a former SEC senior trial attorney who is now a partner at New York-based law firm Moses Singer LLP, the SEC won't be as aggressive about getting that money back as it would from others. He told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” on Wednesday the agency is more concerned with setting clear regulatory standards for the crypto sector.
“The message that the SEC will want to send, and has been trying to send, is less about the sanctity of SEC settlements than how we go about regulating a very young industry,” Fischer said.
He said the failure of the FTX crypto exchange brought to light the need for crypto companies to use the same “metrics and management techniques” used by traditional and legal financial companies.
Read more: BlockFi Files for Bankruptcy as FTX Contagion Spreads
The SEC is “much more concerned with sending a message that there needs to be regulation in this field,” he later added.
Earlier this week, BlockFi filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after pausing withdrawals, citing contagion concerns caused by the collapse of Bahamas-based crypto exchange FTX. FTX is undergoing its own bankruptcy proceedings after a CoinDesk report revealed FTX’s sister company, Alameda Research, was propped up with a significant amount of FTX’s native token, FTT. BlockFi, which once received a line of credit from FTX, said it had upwards of $355 million in crypto assets frozen on the beleaguered exchange.
Fischer said that BlockFi’s move to bankruptcy court is placing more emphasis the need to protect retail investors in crypto, who appear to be last in line to receive any form of repayments.
Read more: BlockFi Most Likely to Pay SEC First, Crypto Lawyer Says
According to Fischer, the SEC is not necessarily “hostile” towards the digital asset industry, but it is “skeptical” of its inner workings.
“The SEC is going to be a lot more concerned not with the money from the settlement, but from what the BlockFi bankruptcy represents in terms of harm to investors, systematic risks, contagion, and what it shows about the risks to crypto world in general,” Fischer said. “That's going to be a little bit more to the front of the mind of the SEC than the $30 million that they're owed.”"
466,494,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/30/morgan-stanley-crypto-winter-hurt-confidence-but-building-digital-asset-infrastructure-remains-key/,"Crypto Winter Hurt Confidence, but Building Digital-Asset Infrastructure Remains Key, Morgan Stanley Says","Some investors see cryptocurrencies taking 10 to 15 years to become fully mainstream, the report said.",2022-11-30,"Investor interest in digital assets has changed in the past year as crypto prices declined, Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a research report Wednesday. Retail interest in prices levels and volatility has eased while demand for regulated products for traditional financial clients has increased, the bank said.
Following this month’s demise of crypto exchange FTX and its sister company Alameda Research, the “market is reassessing the value of all the project tokens issued” and “whether they have been used as assets for leverage,” the note said.
Discussions at the bank’s second annual Cryptocurrency vs. Traditional Finance event on Monday showed more bankruptcies and deleveraging are expected.
While it is unclear how long that process may take, most participants were of the view that “crypto, blockchain and distributed-ledger technology are going to be developed further in the future and increasingly used to trade financial assets.”
The focus is still on building digital-asset infrastructure, though some investors are of the view that it could be a 10 to 15 year journey before digital assets become fully mainstream.
The bank notes that it is now a year since what’s become known as the crypto winter started.
Recent price action and characteristics suggest that the current cycle is similar to that seen in 2017-18. Both times, bitcoin’s (BTC) price fell by more than 70% from its peak and experienced a similar drop around this point in the process following a period of low volatility.
Crypto market leverage, however, is greater in this cycle than it was in the last. That’s probably because crypto institutions such as market makers, companies and investors are the dominant traders in the market this time round, whereas in 2017-18, retail investors dominated.
Morgan Stanley expects deleveraging to continue, noting that stablecoin market capitalization, particularly for the largest stablecoin tether (USDT), has been falling in the last month. It noted that Alameda Research was the largest single recipient of tether.
Read more: JPMorgan: Push to Regulate Crypto to Accelerate After FTX’s Collapse"
467,721,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/30/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-climbs-toward-17k-despite-investor-unease/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Rises Toward $17K Despite Investor Unease,"ALSO: Sam Reynolds writes that most of Grayscale's digital asset trusts are trading at a deep discount, and that many other digital asset trusts that have significant assets face the same predicament.",2022-11-30,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptocurrencies swung upward despite ongoing concerns about FTX fallout and macroeconomic uncertainties.
Insights: Grayscale's other digital asset trusts don't have as much institutional interest as GBTC, which trades a serious discount but is still being scooped up by Cathie Wood's ARK.
Bitcoin Climbs Toward $17K, Despite Investor Unease
By James Rubin
Bitcoin continued its surge from Monday, despite ongoing investor unease over the FTX fallout, central bank monetary hawkishness and the potential impact of mass protests in China over the country's harsh COVID-19 restrictions.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading over $16,979, up nearly 4.5% during the previous 24 hours and its highest point in about two weeks. BTC has shown remarkable resilience, holding largely above $16,000 in the nearly month since crypto exchange FTX started to implode after a CoinDesk story about irregularities on its balance sheet.
""People are nervous now,"" John Peurifoy, co-founder and CEO of crypto brokerage firm Floating Point Group, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""They're nervous about where the contagion goes, what counterparties they're working with. Can they put money in different places? Are they going to lose it? So people are cautious.""
Ether fared even better, recently climbing more than 7.5% to $1,272, its highest level since the second week of November. Other major cryptos assumed various hues of green, with UNI, the token of the smart contracts-based Uniswap platform, and SUSHI, the token of the decentralized exchange SushiSwap, each recently rising over 7%. The popular meme coin DOGE continued its momentum, rising 6% to trade at over 10 U.S. cents. DOGE has jumped roughly 50% over the past week.
U.S. equity indexes closed mixed amid rising macroeconomic uncertainties, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 down 0.5% and 0.1%, respectively, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average trading flat. On Tuesday the Chinese government ratcheted up its efforts to quell the COVID-related demonstrations, sending police to protest hubs and increasing online censorship.
And markets will be listening nervously on Wednesday to remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, who is scheduled to speak at the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy, part of the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C. Fed officials have recently suggested an openness to more dovish interest rate hikes, even while reiterating their commitment to lowering inflation through monetary tightening.
Markets will also be eyeing U.S. congressional efforts to head off a railroad strike that could send prices of goods upward, reversing recent progress. The Consumer Price Index dipped to 7.7% in October, lower than the consensus projection and down from 8.2% the previous month.
Floating Point Group's Peurifoy was circumspect about predicting how low bitcoin's price would reach in the current bearish environment. ""How many more pieces will fall?"" he asked. ""How many people will have to sell crypto to get liquidity? People are holding back selling if they don't need to, but at the same time some people are having to because of economic situations.""
""We're at this pause period. I call it the doldrums,"" he also said.
Grayscale's digital asset trusts, such as GBTC and ETHE, are trading at a serious discount
By Sam Reynolds
Grayscale is best known for its Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), but it also operates a whole suite of digital asset-based trusts.
Grayscale is owned by Digital Currency Group, which is also CoinDesk's parent company.
When discussing GBTC, the words ""discount"" and ""record"" often come in the same sentence.
GBTC trades at a significant discount because there’s no redemption function for the trust. Meanwhile, bitcoin exchange-traded funds listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange is where the liquidity is going. The ""Hotel California"" nature of GBTC was supposed to be solved by converting the trust into a bitcoin ETF, but the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has continued to block it. This has led Grayscale to file a lawsuit.
So far this year, the GBTC discount has blown past its previous records given the broader FTX market contagion, and is now trading at a negative 40%.
And GBTC is just one of the trusts offered by Grayscale.
Many other digital asset trusts that have significant assets under management (AUM) face the same predicament as GBTC.
Data compiled from YCharts shows that Grayscale’s Ethereum Trust is trading at a 43.7% discount, while its ZCash Trust trades at just under a 49% discount.
Its Ethereum Classic Trust, meanwhile, trades at a whopping 70% discount.
Of course, all these have the same problem: The shares can be traded on the open market after a long lockup period, but not redeemed for the underlying asset. Grayscale is one of the largest holders of GBTC, simply because DCG has allocated so much cash for buybacks.
“The Trust currently has no intention of seeking regulatory approval to operate an ongoing redemption program,” reads a 10Q filing for the ZCash Trust. Similar language is found in a 10Q filing for the Ethereum Trust.
One other problem is these other trusts simply don’t have the institutional interest that GBTC has. According to data compiled by 13F.info, which tracks 13F filings by fund managers, GBTC is held by 61 fund managers, while ETHE is held by 37.
Cathie Wood’s ARK has still been buying GBTC, but its holdings of GBTC were down by 26% in the third quarter compared to the same quarter in 2021, according to 13F data ARK's much smaller holdings of ETHE are down by 15% during the same time period. There certainly are others making buys, but the scale just isn’t there.
Grayscale’s other trusts are too small to be listed in 13F filings. The Litecoin Trust has a significant premium, but there hasn’t yet been institutional interest in the product.
It’s tough to see how this can all turn around, considering the bear market and the SEC’s reluctance to offer a redemption scheme.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(00:30 UTC) Australia's Monthly Consumer Price Index (YoY/Oct)
9:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:00 UTC) China's NBS Manufacturing PMI (Nov)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States' Gross Domestic Product Annualized (Q3)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
BlockFi to Make First Appearance in Bankruptcy Court; Bitcoin Bounces Above $16K
Cryptocurrency lender BlockFi, the latest casualty of the FTX collapse, was scheduled to make its first appearance in bankruptcy court after filing for Chapter 11 protection. Hodder Law Firm founder Sasha Hodder joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the legal proceedings. Bitcoin and ether prices were higher despite the BlockFi filing. Floating Point Group CEO John Peurifoy shared his crypto markets outlook. Plus, what other companies could be impacted by FTX's fallout? Bernstein's Gautam Chhugani joined the conversation.
Sam Bankman-Fried Addresses Withdrawals, FTX Collapse in Newly Released Audio Interview: The FTX founder said he unpaused Bahamian FTX withdrawals to “appease” local customers and added his lawyers to the groups of people he said can “go f**k themselves.”
Coinbase Wallet to End Support for Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum Classic, Ripple's XRP and Stellar's XLM: The company took note of ""low usage"" as its reason for no longer supporting those tokens.
France, Luxembourg Test CBDC for 100M Euro Bond Issue: The Venus Initiative is the latest attempt to use digital representations of money for financial-market settlements.
India to Test Digital Rupee in 4 Cities With 4 Banks: The test, which will start on Thursday, will be extended to include another nine cities and four more lenders in a later phase.
DeFi Lender Compound Tightens Borrowing Limits After Aave Exploit Attempt: A passed proposal introduces borrowing caps for five cryptocurrencies and sets stricter loan limits for another five.
CORRECTION (Nov. 30 16:14 UTC): Clarifies that Grayscale’s Ethereum Trust is trading at a 43.7% discount. Its Ethereum Classic Trust trades at a 70% discount."
468,626,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/30/perpetual-focused-decentralized-exchange-gmx-surpasses-uniswap-in-daily-fees-earned/,Perpetuals-Focused Decentralized Exchange GMX Surpasses Uniswap in Daily Fees Earned,"On Monday, GMX earned $1.15 million in trading fees, surpassing Uniswap's $1.06 million for the first time on record.",2022-11-30,"Decentralized exchange GMX has evolved as a serious competitor to established industry players such as Uniswap in the wake of FTX's collapse.
On Monday, GMX earned $1.15 million in trading fees, surpassing Uniswap's $1.06 million for the first time on record, according to data tracked by Delphi Digital.
The decentralized exchange, which allows users to trade perpetuals or futures with no expiry without an intermediary using smart contracts, is perhaps benefitting from a broader shift toward perpetual-focused decentralized platforms triggered by the recent fall of centralized giant FTX.
GMX went live on Ethereum layer 2 system Arbitrum in September 2021 and debuted on Ethereum-competitor Avalanche early this year. The platform offers relatively low transaction fees and zero price impact or the influence of a single trade over the market price.
Crypto perpetuals trading was first launched by centralized exchange BitMEX in 2016 and later dominated by its rivals Binance and the now-insolvent FTX.
Sam Bankman Fried's exchange FTX filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Nov. 11, denting investor confidence in centralized exchanges.
GMX has pocketed $15.7 million in trading fees in four weeks, becoming the fifth-largest decentralized application, ahead of prominent players lincluding dYdX and AAVE, according to data source Token Terminal.
GMX's hosts, Arbitrum and Avalanche, have earned $985,600 and $540,500 in trading fees in 30 days. Uniswap has collected $54 million in trading fees, retaining the industry leadership.
Yet, Uniswap's UNI token has declined by 16% this month, while GMX has gained by 4%.
GMX's outperformance probably stems from the fact that the GMX token holders receive 30% of all the trading fees, while the UNI token holders do not receive a share in trading fees.
GMX has distributed $4.7 million to the token holders in the past 30 days, the fourth-largest payout among all decentralized applications."
469,51,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/30/cryptos-ugly-november-draws-to-close-with-sam-coins-in-gutter-bitcoin-down-18/,"Crypto's Ugly November Draws to Close With ‘Sam Coins’ in Gutter, Bitcoin Down 18%","The FTT token, along with Serum's SRM and Solana's SOL, plunged amid the dramatic collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange. Bitcoin had its worst loss in five months.",2022-11-30,"The rapid collapse of billionaire-turned-scourge Sam Bankman-Fried's crypto empire will likely be remembered for posterity as one of the blockchain industry's worst-ever episodes, and nowhere was that more evident than in the performance of digital-asset markets.
Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency, plunged by 18% in November, its biggest monthly loss in five months. Ether (ETH), the Ethereum blockchain’s native cryptocurrency and the second-largest overall, tumbled 21%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) lost 16%.
Hardest hit in digital-asset markets was a group of tokens commonly associated with Bankman-Fried – because he either invested in them or was one of the biggest backers of the projects, or both. Colloquially, they have become known in crypto-market circles as the “Sam coins.”
FTT, the utility token of the FTX exchange, tumbled 90%, falling from $26 to about $1.
The plunge began shortly after CoinDesk first reported on Nov. 2 that Alameda Research, a trading firm owned by Bankman-Fried, had a balance sheet chock full of the FTX exchange’s own tokens – perhaps the first clear indication of improper self-dealing and excessive risk-taking by the entrepreneur. According to the report, Alameda held $3.66 billion of “unlocked FTT” and a $2.16 billion pile of “FTT collateral” as the third-largest entry on the assets side of its accounting ledger.
Serum (SRM), the native token of a decentralized exchange on the Bankman-Fried-championed Solana blockchain, fell 70% in November – the biggest loser for the month among the roughly 160 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index.
Solana’s native token, SOL, dropped 58% for the month as the Alameda balance sheet also revealed holdings of $292 million of “unlocked SOL,” $863 million of “locked SOL” and $41 million of “SOL collateral.” The fear among traders was that Alameda (and other market players) might suddenly move to dump the tokens, further exacerbating the selling pressure.
The market fallout inflicted widespread casualties on the industry. Sino Global Capital, one of Asia’s biggest and most well-known crypto investors and led by longtime crypto investor Matthew Graham, was closely allied with FTX and had invested in many of the “Sam coins.” According to the firm, its “direct exposure to FTX exchange was confined to mid-seven figures held in custody.” The firm has declined to quantify any losses related to indirect exposure, such as from holding the tokens that tumbled in value.
A key tone shift in crypto markets during the month was just how dramatically they diverged from the path of traditional markets. Stocks shined as investors processed speculation that the Federal Reserve might slow the pace of interest rate hikes as soon as December. The S&P 500 is up 2.2% in November, while gold climbed 7.8%.
BAND, the native token of cross-chain data oracle platform Band Protocol, was the big leader in the CoinDesk Market Index, surging 57% during the month. The jump came as its mainnet successfully upgraded to its BandChain, increasing throughput by 10 times.
Litecoin’s LTC token rallied 38%. The Litecoin blockchain is approaching its third mining-reward halving – a programmed code that will cut LTC's pace of supply expansion by 50%. These blockchain-supply halvings have historically bolstered cryptocurrency prices, analysts say.
Decentralized exchange dYdX's native token ended in the green, up 0.7%.
For most crypto traders, though, the November pain will likely be felt far more acutely than any spotty gains."
470,414,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/30/first-mover-americas-coinbase-wallet-ditches-4-tokens/,First Mover Americas: Coinbase Wallet Ditches 4 Tokens,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Nov. 30, 2022.",2022-11-30,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Coinbase Wallet has said it will end support for bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum classic (ETC), Ripple’s XRP ledger (XRP) and stellar (XLM). This will be effective as of Dec. 5. The exchange cited “low usage”  for dropping the tokens. XRP remains the seventh-largest cryptocurrency with a market cap of almost $20 billion.
Genesis Global Trading has hired lawyers to help find a way to prevent the firm from having to file for bankruptcy. Some creditors are working with law firm Proskauer Rose, while others have retained Kirkland & Ellis, according to Bloomberg. This follows the lending arm of the crypto investment bank suspending redemptions and new loan organizations in the wake of crypto exchange FTX’s collapse. Genesis and CoinDesk share the same parent company, Digital Currency Group.
Sam Bankman-Fried has been called to an FTX hearing by a Texas securities regulator. The Texas State Securities Board has been investigating FTX US since October, and it is asking the ex-FTX CEO to answer claims that FTX US offered unregistered securities products through its yield-bearing service. FTX Capital Markets LLC is registered as a dealer with the board, and “Texans were able to buy and sell publicly traded stock through the firm,” according to the hearing notice that was dated Nov. 22.
Bitcoin (BTC) rose 2% to $16,803, and ether (ETH) gained 4.2% to $1,264 as the cryptocurrency market remained resilient in the midst of a drumbeat of bad news following the collapse of FTX.
The chart shows bitcoin's hash ribbon going back to January.
The hash ribbon uses the 30-day and 60-day simple moving averages of the hashrate or the computing power being used to process transactions to identify periods where miners are in stress.
The 30-day average is about to cross below the 60-day gauge, indicating miner capitulation.
""Hash ribbons, a metric created by Charles Edwards, illustrate when the 30-day moving average of bitcoin’s hashrate crosses below the 60-day moving average.  Another miner capitulation officially has begun,"" Blockware Solutions said.
Morgan Stanley: Crypto Winter Hurt Confidence, but Building Digital Asset Infrastructure Remains Key
Binance Enters Japan With Acquisition of Regulated Crypto Exchange Sakura
Dogechain: Dogecoin’s Tag-Along Sidechain"
471,793,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/01/crypto-markets-today-cftc-chair-proposes-pause-to-overhaul-digital-commodities-consumer-protection-bill/,Crypto Markets Today: CFTC Chair Proposes Pause to Overhaul Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Bill,Rostin Behnam made the suggestion as regulators and the crypto industry continue processing the implosion of crypto exchange giant FTX.,2022-12-01,"The collapse of crypto exchange FTX might not have happened if the firm was under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's watch, the agency's head argued Thursday.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
CFTC Chair Rostin Behnam, testifying before the Senate Agriculture Committee at the first of several congressional hearings expected on FTX, said his agency couldn't have prevented the collapse because FTX wasn't an entity regulated by his agency.
Behnam asked the lawmakers for broader authority to directly oversee spot cash market exchanges, which aren't regulated by any federal agency now (tokens that are deemed securities are overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission).
Most of the senators didn't seem to make much of a distinction between FTX US, the company operating within the U.S., and FTX.com, the global exchange based in the Bahamas. FTX.com has been facing broader issues, including apparently sending customer and corporate funds to Alameda Research, a trading firm that's affiliated with FTX.
Benham said the DCCPA would have banned the commingling of customer and corporate money and also require better corporate governance and actual bookkeeping. He said this sort of activity would have been prohibited if the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act (DCCPA), the bill sponsored by committee heads senators Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and John Boozman (R-Ark.), had been in effect.
Benhnam suggested revisiting the bill to ensure it addresses possible misconduct that may occur at other companies.
In a highly anticipated interview at Wednesday’s DealBook Summit, former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried expressed regret over his exchange's collapse, but clung to the narrative that its failure was due to a bet gone wrong. During the interview with the New York Times’ Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bankman-Fried didn't answer many of the questions investors would want answered, nor did he deliver the mea culpa many crypto industry observers have hoped to hear from the 30-year-old former crypto billionaire. “I didn’t ever try to commit fraud,” he said.
“Gas tax:” Coinbase has disabled non-fungible token (NFT) transfers on its iOS wallet app because of a dispute with Apple over the company’s in-app purchase policy. Taking to Twitter on Thursday, Coinbase said Apple is demanding it pay its gas fees using Apple software, which would make those gas fees subject to Apple’s 30% app tax.
U.S. Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s remarks on Wednesday signaled a likely slowing down in interest rate hikes as soon as the central bank’s mid-December meeting, causing mixed results in equity markets. The S&P 500 index and Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 0.09% and 0.56%, respectively, while the Nasdaq Composite was up 0.13%. Nicholas Colas, co-founder of the market analysis firm DataTrek Research, wrote in a note that as much as Powell is “trying to contain investors’ animal spirits by talking about persistently high interest rates, markets are rejecting that message.” Colas added, “Instead, [markets] are looking through his rhetoric and think they see the inflection point for monetary policy.”
Polygon: Polygon-based applications can soon run on fully decentralized application programming interface (API) operating on indexing service The Graph, away from the current hosting service. Joining Web3, The Graph Network will allow Polygon developers to find the data they need to improve the efficiency of their decentralized applications (dapps), according to a Thursday post. Polygon’s MATIC token surged earlier in the day and was recently trading up 0.1% in the past 24 hours.
Solana: Orca, a Solana-based decentralized exchange (DEX), has integrated with payments heavyweight Stripe to power its fiat-to-crypto transactions. Users will now be able to make fiat purchases for tokens such as USDC and SOL via an on-ramp built inside Orca using Stripe's fiat-to-crypto system. SOL was trading around $13, down 1.6% in the past 24 hours.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at what Web3 gaming got wrong.
Binance Exec Says Firm's 'Centralized Exchange' May Not Be Around in 10 Years
Bitcoin's Price Action Is Encouraging, but It May Not Signal Bottom: Traders
MakerDAO Community Votes to Hike DAI Rewards to 1%
Magic Eden Launches Protocol to Enforce Creator Royalties
CME Group Teaming With CF Benchmarks for 3 New DeFi Rates and Indices
FTX Collapse Highlights Need for Global Crypto Regulations, Says US Treasury’s Adeyemo: Reuters
Bernstein: Crypto User Activity Is Moving On-Chain Following FTX's Collapse"
472,183,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/01/full-transcript-ny-times-interview-with-sam-bankman-fried/,Full Transcript: NY Times' Interview With Sam Bankman-Fried,"Bankman-Fried said during the interview he did not ""knowingly commingle"" customer funds.",2022-12-01,"Andrew Ross Sorkin of the New York Times interviewed former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried on Nov. 30 at the DealBook Summit. What follows is a transcript of that conversation.
Read CoinDesk's coverage of the interview here.
Andrew Ross Sorkin (ARS): In the span of about one week, Sam Bankman-Fried went from a billionaire, the white knight of the crypto world and running one of the largest exchanges, to what some people think has become a wanted man. FTX was once valued at $32 billion. It's now effectively worthless in bankruptcy. We're going to talk about that and whether investors will ever get money back. There are multiple billions owed to creditors and big questions. In the wake of the collapse bitcoin fell to its lowest price in two years, and on Monday, BlockFi, which had been bailed out by FTX, filed for bankruptcy. The rapid fall of this empire has left so many questions about crypto, about the future of it and whether it can be trusted again. Sam Bankman-Fried joins us right now, live from the Bahamas.
Sam, I want to thank you for joining us this afternoon. I appreciate your willingness to have this conversation. As I said at the outset of today, there are a lot of questions that need to be asked and also need to be answered.
As you know, a lot of people have been hurt, genuinely hurt. And my hope is that over the time we have together, that we can have a candid conversation about what happened, how it happened. There are people who are angry and they are seeking answers. I just want everybody in the audience to know that I received thousands of letters and emails, even the past couple days, from a lot of these people who feel like they're victims, and some of them have questioned whether we should have this conversation, whether we should have this interview. There are people who don't believe that this conversation should happen. And I just want to say that I think our job as journalists is to have those conversations, is to ask those questions and seek those answers on behalf of the public. And that is especially true right now.
Sam, here's where I want to start this conversation, if we could. I think at this point, there are two ways to view what has happened at FTX. And I know we'll get into all of the details in a moment. But I'm just gonna go very basic. There's a generous view. And the generous view is that you are a young man who made a series of terrible, terrible very, very bad decisions. The less generous view is that you have committed a massive fraud, that this is a Ponzi scheme, a manipulation of the system. And I want to start there because I think that there's so many people who have that question, which is what is this and what did happen?
Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF): Yeah, look, thanks for having me. And at the end of the day, I was CEO of FTX and that means whatever happened, why ever it happened, I had a duty. I had a duty to all of our stakeholders, to our customers, our creditors, I had a duty to our employees, to our investors and to the regulators of the world to do right by them, to make sure the right things happened to the company and clearly I didn't do a good job with that. Clearly, I – I made a lot of mistakes or things I would give anything to be able to do over again. I didn't ever try to commit fraud on anyone. I, I was excited about the prospects of FTX a month ago. I saw it as a thriving, growing business. I was shocked by what happened this month. And, you know, reconstructing it, were there things I wish I had done differently.
ARS: Well, let's talk about some of the things you, you would want to have done differently. But I don't want this to be an abstraction for folks because it's a lot of big numbers, and often doesn't feel human. One of the letters I got I want to read to you, Sam, because it's from a gentleman who said that he lost his life savings. And the subject line is, ""Sam Bankman-Fried stole $2 million from me."" It says, ""Andrew, can you please ask SBF why he decided to steal my life savings and the $10 billion more from customers to give to his hedge fund Alameda. Can you ask him why his hedge fund was leveraging long all of these s-coins?"" I'm gonna keep it polite for the kids. ""Please ask him if he thinks what happened was fraud."" These are the kinds of letters that I've been getting repeatedly over the past several days. What do you tell this man?
SBF: Yeah, I mean, I'm deeply sorry about what happened. You know, for the long and short of what happened – and I'll start by saying just to make a distinction here – you look at the U.S. platform, you look at the international platform, U.S. platform is a U.S.-regulated platform with American users. To my knowledge that's fully solvent, that's fully funded and, you know, I believe that withdrawals could be opened up today and everyone could be made whole from that, that none of these problems plagued the U.S. platform.
Then you look at the international platform, for their non-U.S. users. And, I mean, as the letter says, Alameda Research did have a long position. And, you know, the international platform, it's a margin-trading platform. It's a derivatives platform. It's a platform where all the clients were, you know, going on placing something as collateral and using that to put on a position, whether that's a futures position, a spot position, a borrow. And, you know, what the exchange is storing was the collateral from all of those positions. Alameda Research was one of those that put on positions there. And as I try and reconstruct this, you know, over the last month, I have limited access to data, but my, my, my, my view of it, from what I have been able to see is roughly that, you know, basically, look, a year ago Alameda had, I think, something like 10% leverage, had something like 10 times the assets of the position that it had on.
Over the course of the last year there were a number of market crashes that drove the value of those assets down and the leverage up. I think it was, to my knowledge, still under 2x leverage, you know, as of a month ago. You look at what happened this month and, you know, in a few days an all-out. I mean, PR assault, which led to a total market collapse in a pretty short period of time, no bid-side liquidity. I think more than $10 billion wiped off in the matter of days, and, realistically speaking, no ability for FTX to be able to, to liquidate that position and generate everything that was owed from it.
ARS: But I think the bigger question is where Alameda got the loan from, which is to say that there is a view that this is about commingling of funds. And in that letter that I just read you, this gentleman actually copied and pasted the terms of service for FTX into the email and I just want to read you this. It says, ""None of the digital assets in your account are the property of, or shall or may be loaned to, FTX Trading. FTX Trading does not represent or treat digital assets and users' accounts as belonging to FTX Trading."" So how is it possible that Alameda had this loan of such a large size?
SBF: So, there's that piece from the terms of service. But there were a number of other parts of the terms of service and there's a number of other parts of the platform on top of that. There is the borrower lending facility where users were lending billions of dollars of assets to each other, you know, collateralized by assets on the exchange. You had, obviously, futures contracts where they are leveraged positions on. Now, of course, all of this, it's meant to be the case that these are positions where FTX could, if it needed to, margin call those positions and close them down in time such that it would cover all of those, all of those shorts, all of those liabilities. Obviously, that wasn't the case here. And that's a massive failure of oversight of risk management, and of a huge diffusion of responsibility from, from myself running FTX.
ARS: But just make this very straight, was there commingling of funds? That's what it appears like. It appears like there's a genuine commingling of the funds that are of FTX customers' that were not supposed to be commingled with your separate firm.
SBF: I didn't knowingly commingle funds. And, again, one piece of this, you have the margin trading. You have, you know, customers borrowing from each other. Alameda is one of those. I was frankly surprised by how big Alameda's position was, which points to another failure of oversight on my part. And a failure to appoint someone to be chiefly in charge of that. But I wasn't trying to commingle funds.
ARS: Well, let me ask you this: The Wall Street Journal reported that [Alameda Research CEO] Caroline Ellison told Alameda staffers that Alameda used FTX client funds to cover loans that were being recalled because of the LUNA-triggered credit crunch. Caroline says that she, Sam, Gary were aware of this. How do you square that with what you originally said over Twitter, that this was an $8 billion accounting mistake?
SBF: So, I'll point to two things. And first of all, obviously, I don't know what anyone else is thinking here. You know, I can only talk about it from what I know, from what I knew. And a lot of this is reconstructing it over the last month. I have limited access to data, but, you know, what it seems like happened is in the middle of the year, a lot of – most of the borrow-lending desks in this space blew out or closed down. And it seems like Alameda had, you know, margin positions opened with them, and that it likely moved a bunch of that over to FTX this year when they shut down. And that means, you know, I think it was over-collateralized positions, but positions that involve substantial size and substantial U.S. dollar size on the borrow side.
In terms of the accounting mistake, again, looking through what happened, I think that there is a substantial discrepancy between what the financials were – what the audited financials were – the true financials – what the exchange understood. All of that was, was, was consistent. Versus what the dashboards that we had displayed for, for Alameda's account there, which substantially under-displayed the size of that position. And, so, that's one of the reasons I was surprised when we dug into everything at, at how big that position had become.
ARS: But you would agree that there is a much more closely connected version of FTX international and Alameda than previously understood. Fair to say?
SBF: Yeah, I mean, given the size of the position, I think it was, if not in intention, it was in effect tied together substantially more than I would have ever wanted it to be.
ARS: So, you did an interview earlier this summer with Bloomberg, and you were asked about the connection between Alameda and FTX, and you said that ""obviously came from the, the same place because it started that way and the same original people, but most of the remaining nexuses,"" you said, ""have dropped off.""
SBF: Yep.
ARS: ""I know the people from Alameda decently well,"" almost as if you don't know what's happening there. ""And there isn't, like, a large amount, you know, of ways remain that we are actively working together, anything like that. Alameda is a wholly separate entity. They're different offices, like, different principal offices, we don't have any shared personnel. We're also not the same company. We not all are under the same corporate umbrella or anything like that."" And yet it seems like Alameda people were living in the same penthouse, where you may very well be right now, all together.
SBF: Most of Alameda was not, was not there. I don't live there now. But – or, you know, not there now – I have not lived there for most of the time. But, you know, I did live with, with, with one or two members of Alameda for a little while. And also I'll say that, you know, as I was, earlier this summer, looking at the relationship – and this is a pretty big mistake in oversight of mine – I was viewing it primarily from the trading volume perspective, because that's what drives our revenue. And so when I was looking at how intertwined are FTX and Alameda, you know, I was looking at, well, what what fraction of trading volume, what fraction of liquidity on the platform does Alameda represent. That had fallen off from something like 45% in 2019 to something like 2% this year, but in terms of positions and balances, it was a much larger fraction. I hadn't been looking at that. That's a pretty big oversight.
ARS: But, Sam, I think the question is whether you were supposed to have access to these accounts to begin with, you know? If, if I worked at a bank and was a bank teller, and I decided to leave the bank at the end of the evening and take the cash that I ostensibly had access to, even if I intended to bring it back to the bank later even with more money to give them back, I still stole the money.
SBF: I mean, look, I wasn't running Alameda. I didn't know exactly what was going on. I didn't know the size of their position. A lot of these are things that I've learned over the last month that I learned as I was sort of frantically digging into this on Nov. 6, Nov. 7, Nov. 8. And, and, obviously, that, that's a pretty big mistake [unintelligible]. That's a pretty big oversight that I wasn't more aware. I think I was, you know, scared of – I was nervous because of the conflict of interest about being too involved. And, obviously, that shouldn't have meant that I didn't have real oversight, or that really shouldn't have meant that I failed to appoint anyone to be in charge of that oversight, that relationship. But I, I haven't been running Alameda, I haven't been thinking about its finances. I haven't been, you know, making those decisions. But, you know, as CEO of FTX it was still my duty to make sure I was doing diligence.
ARS: But you owned it.
SBF: I was, I was a large owner of it. That is true. And I, I had a lot of exposure on that side.
ARS: So why haven't you been focused on it, if, in fact, that's actually where the profits were?
SBF: Well, I don't know that that's where – I mean, I think Alameda had made trading profits over the last few years, but FTX had made profits as well. FTX had been a profitable, growing business. And I was – that was more than a full-time job. I didn't have the bandwidth to run two companies at once. I didn't have the, you know, attention for it. And, again, I was nervous about a conflict of interest between those two, and so was pretty intentional about not being very involved in what was happening at Alameda.
ARS: When did the commingling of assets begin?
SBF: So, and, again, you know, lots of traders had open margin positions on FTX, where they would have borrows of assets where they would be short some asset against, you know, against other assets as collateral. That being said, I, again, looking through this now, I think that that position size for Alameda got substantially larger over the course of 2022. And that it was, I think, substantially larger by October 2022 – probably by July of '22 – than it had been in April.
ARS: But it sounds like it's fair to say that there was always a connection between Alameda and FTX and almost – I mean, not almost, but from the very, very beginning – and then it never really stopped.
SBF: Well, I think it had been, in some ways, reducing. I mean, when you scroll back to 2019, Alameda and FTX were very connected in a number of ways. You know, one of these was that Alameda was the primary liquidity provider on FTX. It was, you know, 40-something percent of volume. It was the backstop liquidity provider. And, you know, you scroll forward to 2022, it was down to 2% of volume. We had a lot of backstop liquidity providers. But it still had a big margin position on, and I, I was failing to pay nearly enough attention to positions and positional risk on the exchange and to Alameda's in particular. And I also, frankly, made a mistake that I feel pretty embarrassed to have made – and a lot of these are – but I substantially underestimated what the scale of a market crash could look like, and what the speed of it could look like. And how correlated it would be.
ARS: But that just suggests that you were just hoping, perhaps hoping against hope, that this would all work out and that nobody, therefore, would realize what this commingling was all about?
SBF: So, it's not how I viewed it. And, in particular, again, most of the firms had margin positions. Most of the firms had borrows on FTX. The problem here, this one was, this was too big. It was – I was surprised by that size of what it was.
ARS: But it's not just too big. It's, it's, it's assets that, look, it sounds like there were assets that, that may have been allowable to be loaned. But then there were assets that weren't allowable to be loaned, no?
SBF: So, I'm still looking into the details of some pieces of this. But I do think that in addition to what I had seen as sort of lot of the standard borrows here, that we scroll back to 2018 or to 2019, I guess, FTX didn't have bank accounts. It didn't have any bank accounts globally. We were trying to get them. It took us a while, it took us a few years, and, you know, there are customers who wanted to wire money to FTX. And so I think in the meantime, some of them were wiring money to Alameda Research to get credited on FTX, and I think that was a substantial sum. And I think that the FTX's internal accounting did correctly, effectively try to debit Alameda for those funds, but it didn't happen in the primary account and so it didn't happen. It created a discrepancy between the display of the account and what was really going on there. And I'm still looking into exactly how that, how that worked mechanically. But I – that, that did make that position size substantially larger than, than I thought and I think than what you would have gotten from, from most normal avenues.
ARS: What do you make of the argument that Alameda was used to effectively wash money into FTX. That American investors, who, by the way, were not technically allowed to even invest on FTX, were doing so and FTX was doing it knowingly because the, the know-your-customer rules were being flouted by using this separate vehicle.
SBF: How would that allow customers to flout the know-your-customer rules? Are you talking about people who are trading on FTX US or are you talking about customers of FTX international?
ARS: International. You just said that there was money being sent to Alameda, and that Alameda was then providing credits onto FTX.
SBF: Right. But those users still had to go through the know-your-customer policy on FTX in order to do that. In order to use that ramp, customers still had to go through FTX's normal KYC onboarding.
ARS: So, when do you think you knew there was a problem?
SBF: So, the time that I really knew there was a problem was Nov. 6. Nov. 6 was – that was the date that the tweet about FTT came out. And by late on Nov. 6, we were putting together all of the data, putting together all the information that obviously should have put together way earlier – that obviously should have been part of the dashboards I was always looking at. And I, you know, when we looked at that, there was a potential serious problem there. And, you know, Alameda's position was big on FTX. It had just taken a huge hit. It had taken hits over the course of the year, but that was a particularly large one and very abrupt. And we're seeing a run on the bank start and that was leading to $4 billion a day of client withdrawals. At that point, you know, we started calling prospective, you know, sources of financing, because I was, I was nervous about what was going to happen there. You know, if you rewind even a few days, I was, I was a little bit nervous, but not on nearly the same scale and I, I was thinking about, you know, risks that were substantially less.
ARS: When you say you were nervous, you were nervous the company was gonna go under? You were nervous you were gonna get caught? What were you nervous about?
SBF: On, like, on Nov. 6 or before then?
ARS: Either.
SBF: So, I think, before then what I was nervous about was that basically – and this started, I would say Nov. 2 or so when there was the leak of the Alameda balance sheet through CoinDesk. And when I started to think a bit more about this, you know, I was nervous that that would lead to substantial losses for Alameda and that, you know, it would be a bit messy. I didn't think it was existential for FTX. I didn't think it was going to lead to a massive loss for FTX's customers. I was thinking of this as more like Alameda is gonna to be really tight on funds and that, you know, maybe it would end up having some small impact on FTX, but not, not a significant one, not one that hurt customers at all. When you're talking about Nov. 6 – late Nov. 6 – then and, and especially as we bleed into Nov. 7 and 8, I start to become nervous that FTX is not going to be able to fulfill customer withdrawals. And, you know, by late Nov. 6, I am very nervous about that. And I'm starting to think about, like, emergency scenarios and I'm starting to think about, like, things might, things might end quite badly here. And, and, and the core metric that I'm thinking of there is will we be able to make sure all customers are whole. And, you know, on Nov. 5, I was feeling quite good about that. On Nov. 7, I was feeling quite uneasy about that.
ARS: I want to go back in time for a moment. This summer you were described oftentimes as the J.P. Morgan of crypto, referencing the 1907 panic that he helped prevent. And you had purchased BlockFi, were making investments in Voyager and all sorts of other things. When you were doing that, at that time, how much of that was an effort to prop up the value of things like FTT, which was the token of FTX, knowing that if a company like BlockFi, which owed a ton of it, that if it collapsed FTT would collapse and in large part, the ""collateral"" that you had for Alameda would collapse.
SBF: So, I don't think any of the borrow-lending desks, to my knowledge, owned a lot of FTT. I think a lot of them, you know, may have been using it as collateral – or, you know, taking it as collateral. I don't think they owned it though or were gonna sell it. And I think that most of them ended up closing down effectively all of their lines with Alameda one way or another. And so at that point, I think that that was close to a sunk cost and so I wasn't viewing it as having any impact on FTT in particular. I did view it as important for the industry's health. I did view it as a thing where I wanted to try to keep the industry stable, but I don't think it had any, you know, really large FTT-specific impact.
ARS: And did it have – you didn't think it had any impact – it would have no impact on Alameda or FTX if, for example, BlockFi were to have failed.
SBF: I don't think it would have had a large direct impact and the reason I say that is that I believe that Alameda ended up returning the vast majority of its open, you know, borrows of its margin positions with the borrow-lending desks in the middle of this year anyway. And so at that point, there wasn't that much left to save from that. You know, the – at that point, I think the bigger thing was just not wanting the industry to implode.
ARS: Let's talk about collateral. Because I think this is – this entire experience has been a revelation for a lot of people about what might be collateral. And clearly you were using FTT and Solana and other tokens as collateral, and part of that required you to mark them in a specific way – a value to them.
SBF: Yep.
ARS: Do you think that you were marking them properly?
SBF: In Alameda's case, I don't think I was marking them the way I wish I had from a risk perspective. And I want to sort of differentiate your, like, expected value or, or sort of, like, worth or something like that from security. And, you know, I think that I don't have any strong statements to make about, you know, what value they're assigned from sort of, like, an upside perspective or even a median case perspective. But clearly, I was, I was not nearly cautious enough from a downside perspective – from the extreme downside perspective. And, you know, I can tell you, in my head, I was looking at a 30% down move over a few-day period as a sort of, like, extreme tail-case event that, you know, we had seen once before, and, and then, you know, what happened here was, I mean, a 95% down move over the course of a year, and a, you know, 60% down move over a few-day period with very little liquidity and all happening at once in all of these coins in a correlated fashion in which hedges didn't mean as much also because this was a specific crash on assets associated with Alameda Research, rather than all assets. And so even correlated hedges had limited use there, and a run on the bank at the same time. And all that are things, in retrospect, I should have expected might happen in an extreme scenario, because that's how markets work. And, you know, we've seen other examples of that in history where, when things get really bad, they get really bad for all the relevant things at once, in a very direct and correlated and quick way.
ARS: I want to go to the BlockFi acquisition for a moment. How much money do you think Alameda – I'd say that they had a lot of FTT but – that Alameda had borrowed from BlockFi at the time of the bailout?
SBF: I honestly don't know, but I, I would have guessed, like, $100 million, maybe couple hundred million, but I, I, I honestly don't know the answer – I wasn't, I wasn't, like, paying detailed attention. That's my guess.
ARS: And were you using FTT and Serum and other things to collateralize the loans at BlockFi, do you think? I mean, this goes to the whole idea of both the value of these things and also whether you were trying to buy BlockFi, in fact, to continue to support effectively Alameda over FTX.
SBF: Right, you know, it might be, I would guess it was but, but, you know, to your point, my guess is that, like, the amount paid for, for BlockFi is probably bigger than the amount that Alameda had opened with it. I mean, I don't know that for sure, again, I – but I wasn't even looking at what that number was really. But I think that's, that's about right.
ARS: I want to go back to the Alameda piece of it for just another moment, if you'd stick with me here. You had told investors and regulators that you were not involved in Alameda decision-making. And yet, in the case – Alameda invested $1.15 billion in Genesis Digital Assets without your consultation or approval – that's the question. And my understanding is you also served on the board of Genesis Digital Assets. And so I'm trying to understand how you wouldn't have been involved with Alameda?
SBF: So, I was somewhat involved with venture investing and that was done out of a separate entity than, you know, any of Alameda's proprietary trading, than its activity on FTX or other crypto exchanges. But I was consulted on, on some of its, its VC investments, including with GDA.
ARS: What are your lawyers telling you right now? Are they suggesting this is a good idea for you to be speaking?
SBF: No, they're very much not. And, I mean, you know, the classic advice, right? Don't say anything. You know, recede into a hole. And it's not who I am. I mean, it's not who I want to be. I don't have – I, I have a duty to talk to people. I have a duty to explain what happened. And I think I have a duty to do everything I can to try and do what's right if there anything I can do to try and help customers out here, and I don't see what good is accomplished by me just sitting locked, you know, in a room pretending the outside world doesn't exist.
ARS: You're in the Bahamas right now. Are you in the Bahamas because you think you can't leave?
SBF: No. I'm in the Bahamas. I mean, I have been in the Bahamas for the last year and, you know, I've been running FTX from the Bahamas. You know, I've been running FTX Digital Market, our, you know, primary operating entity down here, you know, with the Bahamian regulators and, and others in, in, in contact and I, you know, right now, I'm, you know, looking to be helpful anywhere I can with any of the global entities that, you know, that would want my help.
ARS: Do you think you could come to the United States or go elsewhere?
SBF: To my knowledge I could.
ARS: Have you thought about doing that?
SBF: I've thought about it and, you know, I mean, I've seen a lot of the, obviously, a lot of the hearings that have been happening. I would, you know, not be surprised if, you know, sometime I am, you know, up there talking about what happened to our representatives or, you know, wherever else is, is most appropriate.
ARS: How concerned are you about criminal liability at this point?
SBF: So, I don't think that, I mean, obviously, I don't, I don't personally think that I have, you know – but I, I think the real answer is that it's not – sounds weird to say but, but – I think the real answer is that's not what I'm focusing on. It's – there's gonna be a time and a place for me to sort of think about myself and my own future, but I don't think this is it, like, right now. I mean, look, I've had a bad month. [Audience laughs.] This has not been a fun month for me. But that's not what matters here. Like, what matters here is the millions of customers. What matters here is all the stakeholders in FTX who, who got hurt, and, and trying to do everything I can to help them out. And, you know, as long as that's the case, like, I don't think that, I don't think that, you know, what happens to me is the important part of that. And I don't think that's what it makes sense for me to be focusing on.
ARS: Sam, help me with this. On Nov. 7, you tweeted, and then deleted, a tweet that said, ""FTX has enough to cover all client holdings. We don't invest client assets, even treasuries. We've been processing all withdrawals and will continue to be."" You then deleted that tweet and literally just moments ago, you told me it was on Nov. 7 that things took a turn.
SBF: Yep.
ARS: You're telling the truth?
SBF: So, things were changing fast. And, you know, when you look at Nov. 6, I was feeling nervous, but I felt like things were probably going to end up OK. We still had, I mean, you know, assets way larger than liabilities and, yeah, there's increasing withdrawal demand, but we were meeting all of it. We were processing all of it, although it was a weekend so we were a day delayed on a lot of wire transfers and stablecoin creations and the Bitcoin node was overloaded, but, you know, their assets were continuing to process. By Nov. 8, I did not think the odds were that high that we were gonna be able to meet all client demand and, and I was worried that there was going to be a substantial liquidity shortfall. Nov. 7, that was sort of the transition day and, you know, even just the start versus the end of Nov. 7, I felt fairly different, you know. And I can't remember exactly what I was thinking or, or, or, or when I sent that but, you know, I remember trying to think about feeling conflicted about what to say and trying to think about what I could say that I believed and, you know, by, by not that long later, I no longer believed that. I no longer – that no longer felt like it had much, like – that was a, a at all reasonable representation of where my mind was at. And I don't remember exactly when I deleted it. But I remember at some point, I was, like, that shouldn't be there.
ARS: Let me ask a different question, because this is all around the same time. The New York Times reported that $515 million was ""suspiciously"" transferred from FTX wallets after – after ...
SBF: Yeah.
ARS: ... the bankruptcy filing.
SBF: Yes.
ARS: And there have been accusations that this is the assistance, effectively, of theft. Where did that money go?
SBF: So, I will caveat this by saying at that point, I was being cut off from systems. And so I'll give you the answer to the extent that I know it, which is that I believe that a few different things happened within a short period there. I think that the U.S. team took actions to seize some of the assets, and put it in custody, from the exchange. I believe the – it has been announced that, you know, the Bahamian regulators took some of the assets into safekeeping as well around that same time. And I think there is, in addition to both of those, there's also been some actually improper access of assets on the exchange. And I don't know the details of that. I don't have the resources to tr"
,,,,,,
473,788,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/01/solana-based-dex-orca-teams-up-with-stripe-for-fiat-to-crypto-transactions/,Solana-Based DEX Orca Partners With Stripe for Fiat Transactions,Users will now be able to make fiat purchases for tokens such as USDC and SOL via an onramp built inside Orca using Stripe's fiat-to-crypto system.,2022-12-01,"Orca, a Solana-based decentralized exchange (DEX), has integrated with payments heavyweight Stripe to to power its fiat-to-crypto transactions.
Users will now be able to make fiat purchases for tokens such as USDC and SOL via an onramp built inside Orca using Stripe's fiat-to-crypto system.
Orca is powered by an automated market maker (AMM), the underlying protocol of a DEX which enables trading without the input of an intermediary as in a centralized exchange. Orca is one of the most prominent DEXs on Solana.
DEXs may witness a surge in popularity in the months and years ahead, should the dramatic collapse of FTX cast doubt over the security of centralized exchanges in the minds of traders and investors.
Stripe is one of the world's largest fintech firms and has been quite active in the crypto industry in recent months, teaming up with the likes of Ethereum scaler Polygon to enable its clients to pay freelancers, merchants and content creators in crypto.
Read more: Blockchain Protocol Komodo Offering Three-In-One Wallet, Cross-Chain Bridge and DEX"
474,82,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/01/first-mover-americas-cryptos-november-fall/,First Mover Americas: Crypto's November Fall,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Dec. 1, 2022.",2022-12-01,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bitcoin plunged by 18% in November, its biggest monthly loss in five months. Meanwhile, ether lost 21% during the month. The hardest-hit digital assets were a group of tokens commonly associated with Sam Bankman-Fried, the disgraced ex-CEO of fallen crypto exchange FTX. FTT, the utility token of FTX, tumbled 90% to $1 from $26. Serum (SRM), the native token of a decentralized exchange on the Bankman-Fried-championed Solana blockchain, sank 70%.
Traditional-finance giant TP ICAP has registered as a digital-asset provider with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority. The world’s largest interdealer-broker is attempting to break into the crypto world via its Fusion Digital Assets marketplace. TP ICAP is working with Fidelity Digital Assets to offer the platform, which will match orders and execute spot crypto trades.
Telegram is pushing forward with a buildout of crypto infrastructure. The messaging app, which is already a go-to for many crypto traders, is planning to build crypto wallets. The app has sold $50 million in usernames in less than a month through its blockchain-based auction platform, Fragment, CEO Pavel Durov said Wednesday.
The chart shows U.S. financial conditions have eased notably since the release of the October inflation report on Nov. 10.
The more the Federal Reserve pivots away from aggressive liquidity tightening, the greater the loosening of financial conditions and the bigger the risk of the central bank missing its inflation target.
Therefore, the Fed may push back against easing financial conditions, more so as investors on Wednesday focused on Chairman Jerome Powell acknowledging the slowing in the rate hikes while ignoring his core message of stubbornly higher core inflation.
Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried: 'I Didn’t Knowingly Commingle Funds'
Bernstein: Crypto User Activity Is Moving On-Chain Following FTX's Collapse
Bitcoin's Price Action Is Encouraging, Yet It May Not Signal Bottom: Traders"
475,465,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/01/cftc-chair-suggests-pause-to-overhaul-senate-bill-following-ftx-debacle/,CFTC Chairman Suggests 'Pause' to Overhaul Senate Bill Following FTX Debacle,Rostin Behnam said in light of recent events lawmakers should make sure the bill has no gaps.,2022-12-01,"The collapse of crypto exchange FTX may not have happened if the firm was under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's watch, the agency's head argued Thursday.
CFTC Chairman Rostin Behnam, testifying in the first of several congressional hearings on FTX before the Senate Agriculture Committee, said his agency couldn't have prevented the collapse because FTX wasn't an entity regulated by his agency. He asked the lawmakers for broader authority to directly oversee spot cash market exchanges, which aren't regulated by any federal agency now (tokens that are deemed securities are overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission).
Most of the senators didn't seem to make much of a distinction between FTX US, the company operating within the U.S., and FTX.com, the global exchange based in the Bahamas. FTX.com has had the broader issues, including apparently sending customer and corporate funds to Alameda Research, a trading firm that's affiliated with FTX.
Still, this sort of activity would be prohibited if the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection Act (DCCPA), a bill sponsored by committee heads Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and John Boozman (R-Ark.) had been a law, Behnam said.
The DCCPA would ban the commingling of customer and corporate money and also require better corporate governance and actual bookkeeping, Behnam said. Still, he suggested revisiting the bill to ensure it addresses possible misconduct that may occur at other companies.
""Given the circumstances of the past few weeks, I think we should take a pause and look at the bill and make sure there are no gaps or no holes,"" he said. ""Where the bill may be strengthened [is] disclosures around financial information of the entity, the crypto entity and conflicts of interest, obviously an issue that many members have talked about today, given the brazen conflicts that occurred at the non-regulated entity.""
With or without a pause, Behnam stressed the importance of moving quickly to pass legislation that could give his agency greater oversight of spot markets.
""Strengthening the bill and filling the gaps is one thing. We need to move forward as soon as possible. We don't want this to happen again in the next few months and have the risk of customers losing money because of these gaps,"" he said.
Behnam said at present all of the CFTC's crypto-related enforcement activities are tied to tips and whistleblowers, saying ""that is not healthy."" He wants his agency to be able to spot possible issues itself.
""We need registration of exchanges. We need surveillance of market activity. We need direct relationships with custodians who are holding customer money so that we can prohibit and prevent money moving around,"" he said. ""There are so many tools in a comprehensive regulatory framework that will put us as boots on the ground in the entity to prevent all of these illegal activities."""
476,478,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/01/theres-still-investment-opportunity-after-the-fall-of-ftx/,There’s Still Investment Opportunity After the Fall of FTX,"Those undaunted by the contagion could potentially take advantage of steep discounts in funds, options/futures, crypto stocks - and yes, tokens.",2022-12-01,"Crypto investors still have a lot to be thankful for as 2022 comes to a close – but it’s difficult to ignore the obvious...
That being the collapse of crypto exchange FTX and the contagion it continues to spread across the industry, made evident again this week when crypto lender BlockFi declared bankruptcy.
Of course, we should take note that BlockFi’s difficulties are not at all unexpected because the company began reducing headcount as its value dropped by more than 66% earlier this year. The FTX collapse was just a nail in the troubled firm’s coffin.
All that said, those of us who are experienced investors know that often the times of greatest calamity provide some of the best investment opportunities.
In addition to seeking advice on how to protect and store their own digital assets amid the chaos, the crypto-curious clientele of financial advisors are surely interested in hearing about these opportunities – but where are they?
You're reading Crypto for Advisors, a weekly look at digital assets and the future of finance for financial advisors. Subscribe here to receive the mailing every Thursday.
One likely source of opportunity is already being exploited by leading investors like Cathie Wood, chief investment officer of technology-oriented ARK Investment Management: crypto funds.
The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC) has been trading at as much as a 45% discount to their net-asset value in recent weeks. (Grayscale is a CoinDesk sister company.) Several other closed- and open-ended crypto funds have been trading at similarly steep discounts.
Read more: Cathie Wood's Ark Invest Buys $1.5M in Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Shares
If one feels fairly confident that the value of the digital assets these funds hold will start to rise once again, then buying funds at such a large discount could be the rough equivalent of buying a dollar for 55 cents.
Of course, there’s no guarantee that such funds will trade at a premium to their assets – or even reach par in the future – but most financial assets demonstrate some level of reversion to the mean.
Another potential option for crypto-curious investors seeking a little security: options, according to emailed comments Simeon Hyman, global investment strategist at exchange-traded fund (ETF) issuer Proshares Investments.
“Bitcoin futures-linked ETFs, such as ProShares Bitcoin Strategy ETF (BITO) and ProShares Short Bitcoin Strategy ETF (BITI), provide a belt-and-suspenders approach,” wrote Hyman. “They use regulated futures to gain exposure to bitcoin-linked returns, and they do so in the efficient, regulated wrapper of an ETF.”
Hyman noted that ProShares bitcoin futures ETFs have been trading with tight spreads and little deviation from their NAV, despite the recent volatility in crypto asset prices.
Read more: Everything You Need to Know About Bitcoin ETFs
Major institutions, including large pension funds such as the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan and private investment specialists like Sequoia Capital are writing off millions of dollars of investments in FTX.
As a result of these tax deductions, there should be a bit of a chill in institutional investment into the crypto space as public pensions in particular are scrutinized for their allocations. This chill is also spilling over into retail investors spooked by the swoon in token prices and the wave of bankruptcy filings.
Publicly traded crypto stocks such as Coinbase Global (COIN), operator of the Coinbase crypto exchange, have experienced declines in value of nearly 90% from their 52-week peak. While many crypto stocks may have been overvalued during retail investors’ digital gold rush, today’s stock pickers may find opportunities for valuation expansion in some companies.
Sign up: Introducing Our First Newsletter Course: Learn Crypto Investing
Despite the recent swoon in token prices, rising uncertainty about their future trajectory and even the doubts about the current crop of crypto tokens’ long-term viability, it might not be such a bad idea just to buy the tokens themselves, according to recent research from the CFA Institute.
Over the past 12 to 18 months, crypto critics have seized upon token prices’ growing correlations to U.S. equity indexes, particularly large-capitalization indexes like the S&P 500 and sector funds like XLK, the iShares ETF covering the U.S. technology sector.
The CFA Institute, in researching asset prices from the past three years, dispelled some of these concerns by finding that five of the largest crypto tokens – BTC, ETH, LTC, XRP and ADA – have relatively weak correlations compared to a full range of equity style indexes and sector ETFs. While the correlation is still positive – when the indexes go up or down the tokens follow in the same direction – it's not a one-to-one correlation.
“Cryptocurrencies’ low positive correlation with mutual funds and ETFs may indicate an increase in cross-market trading and signal crypto’s growing popularity,” wrote the CFA Institute’s researchers.
“Moreover, in a rising interest rate environment and amid the diminished efficacy of the traditional 60/40 equity/bond portfolio, crypto’s weak correlation to traditional assets may offer potential diversification benefits for long-horizon investors who can withstand added short-term volatility. Not all cryptocurrencies display the same lack of correlation to traditional assets, however, so investors need to be discerning about which ones they target.”"
477,901,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/01/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-rises-again-on-us-fed-chairs-moderate-remarks/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Rises Again on US Fed Chair's Moderate Remarks,"ALSO: Sam Reynolds writes that the decision by shipping giant Maersk and IBM to wind down TradeLens highlights the failure of blockchain-based transparent ledgers, which once held great promise in a range of industries.",2022-12-01,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Crypto markets and other assets liked the sound of a more moderate approach to U.S. monetary policy as Fed Chair Jerome Powell suggested the central bank would boost interest rates by only 50 basis points in December.
Insights: Blockchain-based enterprise software has not been the success that industries expected.
Fed Chair's Moderate Remarks Send Cryptos Higher
By James Rubin
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell wasn't exactly dovish in a speech Wednesday, but his suggestion that the Fed could live with a more moderate interest rate hike at its mid-December meeting sent cryptocurrency prices, not to mention other assets, higher.
Bitcoin was recently trading over $17,150, up 1.4% over the past 24 hours, and its third consecutive day of gains. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had started surging on Monday amid investor hopefulness that Powell and other Fed officials have found reassurance in economic indicators showing inflation and the threat of a harsh recession waning. BTC sank below $15,500 two weeks ago as markets chewed on Genesis Global Capital's decision to halt withdrawals, part of the fallout from crypto exchange giant FTX's implosion. (Genesis is a CoinDesk sister company.)
Bilal Little, president of DFD Partners, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that this week's rally also reflected a price reordering that often follows periods of distress. ""Anytime you have an episodic event, markets tend to oversell, and what also happens is you see the immediate look to contagion, and everyone starts pointing fingers. Then as markets gain more clarity, you see the fair market value come back into alignment.""
Ether was recently changing hands over $1,290, up 1.5% from Tuesday, same time. Other major altcoins were largely in the green with MATIC, the token of layer 2 scaling tool Polygon, rising more than 5%. Popular meme coin DOGE countered the trend, falling more than 3% after soaring about 50% over the previous eight days. DOGE is trading well over 10 cents.
Prices moved little late on Wednesday, seemingly unimpressed by former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried's latest non-confessions in a New York Times live interview about the missteps leading to FTX's filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Nov. 11. Bankman-Fried spoke in generalities, often looking down at the floor as the Times' uber-reporter Andrew Ross Sorkin peppered him with questions. ""I didn't ever try to commit fraud,"" Bankman-Fried said at one point.
Cryptos' upswing was small compared to equity markets, which soared on Powell's remarks at the Brookings Institution's Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy in Washington, D.C., that the Fed would likely raise interest rates 50 basis points (BPS) instead of continuing its recent diet of 75 bps increases. Investors were also heartened by the U.S.'s third quarter GDP, which grew 2.9%, up from the Commerce Department's original 2.6% estimate.
DFD Partners' Little was pessimistic about crypto prices continuing to climb, saying that bitcoin would likely sink to the $12,000 to $13,000 level before topping $22,000, a level it last reached in October. ""It's going to be on the back of what are the other contagion impacts, around this particular event, FTX"" he said. ""Different providers are going to struggle to not only meet liquidity demands but also counter-party risk.""
The Failure of Blockchain-Based Enterprise Software
By Sam Reynolds
Rewind to the last crypto bear market, and the narrative of ""enterprise blockchain"" was driving the recovery. Although this funny internet money was subject to booms and busts, the programmability of blockchain technology was supposed to unlock trillions of dollars of real value. Beijing had identified it as a strategic technology, after all.
But despite the $3.1 trillion in unlocked value that Gartner promised by 2030, industry use cases for blockchain continue to fade away.
Recently, Maersk and IBM announced that TradeLens, the blockchain-based transparent ledger that was supposed to improve freight processing and customs clearance, will be wound down in 2023.
“TradeLens has not reached the level of commercial viability necessary to continue work and meet the financial expectations as an independent business,” Maersk Head of Business Platforms Rotem Hershko said in a statement.
Keywords: commercial viability. This seems to be the theme with enterprise blockchain applications. Executives aren’t able to determine why we need this as opposed to more traditional database technology.
Earlier this month, the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) said it was canceling a planned blockchain-based upgrade to its clearing house system. The existing system was performing well enough, and executives at the bourse couldn’t justify spending on a system upgrade that might not do much more than its predecessor.
Amazon: Why blockchain?
Tim Bray, one of the godfathers of web software development, offers an anecdote about all this on his blog. Until early 2020, Bray was a vice president at Amazon Web Services (AWS) beforere signing as a high-profile defector, vocally criticizing Amazon for its “vein of toxicity.”
In 2016, presumably during happier times in his career at the company, Bray was in a meeting with Andy Jassy, then-CEO of AWS, and the topic was blockchain. Bray writes (the entire post is worth reading) that Jassy was hearing from his clients that AWS needed a blockchain strategy. But Jassy couldn’t understand why blockchain was necessary when existing tools provided sufficient solutions.
AWS was already making a ton of money from blockchain. Many of the world’s crypto exchanges or other infrastructure projects host their products on the platform (see: the $4.6 million AWS bill to Alameda/FTX). But this is different than what the world’s industrial and commercial giants were being told they wanted. They needed to integrate blockchain, investors said, and it was up to AWS to implement this.
“I can’t remember the details of how our findings got back to Andy. They were of the form 'Ledgers are useful, cryptography tech is useful, blockchains aren’t, the field is full of grifters, but we could build distributed-ledger infrastructure and then these cool services on top of it,’” Bray wrote. “I’m not prepared to say that no blockchain-based system will ever be useful for anything. But I’m gonna stay negative until I see one actually at work doing something useful, without number-go-up greedheads clamped on its teats.”
AWS still has a blockchain segment, and is said to be in the process of preparing to double down on China, the only market where enterprise blockchain continues to exist at scale because of state diktat (where’s the on-chain data?).
Meanwhile, its competitor, Microsoft Azure, has shuttered its cloud blockchain services. As CoinDesk reported last year, IBM’s blockchain division is a “shell of its former self.”
Bray noted in his post that it wasn’t the role of AWS to “ascertain market realities.” They needed to build what the customer wanted. Jaffy, the executive in charge of the division, was “possibly the world’s single most accomplished person at listening to people talk about Enterprise IT problems and the tools needed to fix them,” and if he couldn’t see the value of this technology, it probably wasn’t worth anyone’s time.
But at the time, if you questioned the technology, you were a “peasant,” as Bray noted, because all the ""Serious Enterprises full of Serious People” were about to adopt blockchain.
And now, those that did are abandoning it.
Let’s just admit that it was all a failure.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Germany's Retail Sales (YoY/Oct)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) Bank of Japan Governor Kuroda speech
11:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(15:00 UTC) United States ISM Manufacturing PMI (Nov)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Rises Toward $17K; BlockFi Has $355M in Crypto Frozen on FTX
Crypto lender BlockFi has about $355 million in cryptocurrencies currently frozen on defunct crypto exchange FTX. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De discussed the latest developments uncovered during BlockFi's first day in bankruptcy court. Howard Fischer, former SEC senior trial counsel and current partner at Moses Singer, shared his thoughts on the legal proceedings. Plus, former AAX Vice President Ben Caselin, who has resigned amid the crypto exchange's withdrawal halt, joined the conversation. And, a crypto markets analysis with Bilal Little of DFD Partners.
Telegram CEO Durov Plans to Build Crypto Wallets, Decentralized Exchange: The messaging app is pushing ahead with its buildout of crypto infrastructure.
Bitcoin Correlation With the Dollar Index Turns Negative, Again: Asset managers reduced long positions in BTC for a third consecutive week.
Kraken Cuts 30% of Workforce Amid Crypto Winter: The crypto exchange is laying off 1,100, after saying it was in hiring mode earlier this year.
Near Foundation Joins Processed Foods Giant Grupo Nutresa to Unveil Web3 Loyalty Program in Latin America: It is the first open-source loyalty program using the Near protocol and aims to reach one million consumers throughout the region.
Bitcoin Custody Firm Casa to Add Ethereum Support: The addition is part of a major overhaul of the Casa app, which will be relaunched in January."
478,466,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/02/crypto-derivatives-dexes-reposition-for-life-after-ftx/,Crypto Derivatives DEXs Reposition for Life After FTX,Decentralized exchanges are retooling their public-facing approach.,2022-12-02,"The collapse of crypto derivatives exchange FTX is driving more attention to its on-chain competitors and prompting these decentralized exchanges (DEX) to double down as an alternative.
Whether they can win the trust of the trading public is yet to be seen. But on a DEX it is virtually impossible to inconspicuously commingle funds (as the FTX centralized exchange appears to have done) when everything’s traceable on the blockchain.
That’s driven lots of new interest to some of the earliest decentralized players. Dan Gunsberg, creator of Solana-based derivatives exchange Hxro, said that in recent weeks he’s seen a boom in interest for his trading platform, which he claims cannot fall prey to the same pain points that felled FTX and its sister company, Alameda.
“This was not a [decentralized finance] problem,” Gunsberg said of the latest market collapse. “FTX and Alameda, as far as we know, were incredibly centralized, controlled by a single person. These things metastasize because of human error.”
DeFi is hardly a magic salve for crypto’s multi-billion-dollar woes. Protocols can get hacked, duped, drained and worse, costing their users massive aggregate losses. In contrast with the “black boxes” of centralized exchanges, though, DEXs operate according to their open-source code. Gunsberg noted DEXs have on-chain assets that are open for all to see – so long as one knows where to look.
That’s easier said than done, however, and lay traders can’t always navigate the block explorers and datasets that – though public – speak to the state of an on-chain exchange’s status. Some DEXs are now working to make this data more accessible.
Drift Protocol, GMX and Perpetual Protocol have commissioned asset dashboards on data site Nansen that showcase the health of their respective exchanges. Among the information included in the dashboards are token allocations and debts owed by the protocols.
Their efforts are the on-chain equivalent of the “proof of reserves” movement sweeping across centralized exchanges now jostling to prove their words are good with hard data. Even that has its limits, however. Whatever one wants to call it – proof of reserve, proof of liability, proof of deposit or something else – that report only speaks to a moment in time.
At the same time, many decentralized protocols are readying their defenses against an expected regulatory onslaught. Their fear is that financial regulators, already spooked by FTX's apparent misdeeds, will want to regulate DeFi, too.
“A lot of us raised concerns about how DeFi derivatives platforms do not have a strong voice,” said David Lu, co-founder of Drift Protocol. He said GMX, Drift, Perpetual Protocol as well as dYdX are pooling their efforts to have a larger collective clout."
479,294,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/02/alameda-research-shouldered-ftx-loss-of-up-to-1b-following-clients-leveraged-trade-in-2021-ft/,Alameda Research Shouldered FTX Loss of Up to $1B Following Client's Leveraged Trade in 2021: FT,That FTX was having to navigate such losses in the pre-bear market days of 2021 may go some way to explain its frail position that would ultimately bring about its collapse.,2022-12-02,"Alameda Research bore the brunt of a $1 billion loss incurred by its affiliated firm FTX after a leveraged trade on the now-bankrupt crypto exchange backfired early last year, the Financial Times reported Friday, citing people with knowledge of the matter.
In early 2021, a client's leveraged bet on a little-known token called mobilecoin – used for payments in the messaging app Signal – suddenly caused it to spike from to almost $70 from $6, exposing some weaknesses in FTX's financial buffers.
The trader used the position to borrow against it on FTX, which could have allowed him or her to extract dollars from the exchange, according to the FT's report.
Alameda, which was also owned by then-FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, then stepped in to assume the trader's position to protect FTX's liquidity. Its loss was in the hundreds of millions of dollars and could have been as high as $1 billion.
The revelation reinforces the unusual ties between the two companies, as it was later discovered that FTX in turn bailed out Alameda with as much as $10 billion in user funds this year.
That FTX was having to navigate such losses in the pre-bear market days of 2021 may also go some way to explain its frail position that would ultimately bring about its collapse. Bankruptcy filings reveal that FTX and Alameda lost $3.7 billion in 2021.
FTX didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Read more: The FTX Downfall: Full Coverage"
480,903,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/02/first-mover-asia-cryptos-short-win-streak-ends-as-investors-remain-cautious/,First Mover Asia: Cryptos' Short Win Streak Ends as Investors Remain Cautious,ALSO: Shaurya Malwa writes that oversubscription of an initial exchange offering at Binance underscores investors' continued interest in crypto and may offer hope for the industry's rebound.,2022-12-02,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether traded down slightly to break a three-day streak of gains, although the largest crypto by market value continued to change hands near $17,000.
Insights: An IEO at crypto exchange Binance shows that many investors remain high on cryptocurrencies, despite the ongoing bear market.
Bitcoin's Short Winning Streak Ends
By James Rubin
Crypto prices, which had been rolling this week, retreated on Thursday, underscoring investors' caution about the industry's fate, and the wider economy.
Bitcoin was recently trading just below $17,000, off 0.8% over the past 24 hours. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had risen three consecutive days amid encouraging jobs and productivity data and hopes that the U.S. central bank was ready to scale back its hawkish monetary policy. On Wednesday, U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell had suggested in a speech at the Brookings Institute that the Fed might raise interest rates 50 basis points, down from its recent 75 basis points regimen.
But in the 36 hours since Powell's remarks, cryptos have been largely unimpressed by the prospect of increased liquidity and more concerned about contagion linked to crypto exchange giant FTX's collapse, not to mention other 2022 debacles still winding their way through courts.
""Cryptos are struggling,"" wrote Edward Moya, senior market analyst for foreign exchange market maker Oanda, in an email. ""Concerns brew that Tether loans could be the next big risk for the cryptoverse. Stablecoins are an important part of the crypto world and if one of the major ones break, that will send bitcoin and [ether] to new lows.""
Ether was holding steady at slightly under $1,300, down 1.2%. Other major cryptos were largely in the red, albeit lightly shaded, although popular meme coin DOGE recently dropped more than 4%. DOGE had climbed about 50% over an eight-day stretch starting Nov. 22. MATIC, the token of the layer 2 Polygon blockchain platform, was down more than 2% after rising the past couple of days at least partly on news that its application programming interface (APIs) would soon deploy on web3 indexing service, The Graph.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, slipped 1.26%.
Cryptos' day largely dovetailed with stocks' sluggish day as the Nasdaq and S&P 500 declined a few fractions of a percentage point. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose slightly.
Moya noted that investors – crypto and otherwise – would be awaiting the release of nonfarm payroll data for the latest read on the U.S. job market, which has shown signs of cooling over the last few months. In November, private companies added only 127,000 jobs, according to payroll processor ADP, less than half the number in October.
Meanwhile, Pranav Kanade, portfolio manager for mutual fund and exchange-traded fund company VanEck, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program on Wednesday that predicting where crypto prices bottom out would be difficult, although he struck an upbeat note about recent industry crises and market bearishness.
""When we look at one of the positives coming out of what just happened, you have seen a lot of investors withdraw assets into self-custody,"" he said, adding: ""My guess is that anyone who's remaining in the ecosystem are likely true believers in the underlying technology and even the future upside of the asset class.""
In Some Corners, Crypto Dreams Are Still Thriving
By Shaurya Malwa
What bear market?
Depending where you look, the crypto dream is thriving.
A recently concluded initial exchange offering (IEO) at crypto exchange Binance saw participants lock up over 9 million BNB, valued at over $2.7 billion, as they competed for the allocation of Hooked Protocol’s HOOK tokens.
The IEO, a fundraising event administered by an exchange, comes as crypto markets weather a year-long bear market that has been exacerbated by the implosion of multiple major projects, most recently crypto exchange giant FTX. Some tokens have lost as much as 95% of their value amid the contagion, and bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, has plunged more than 60%.
IEOs usually see users lock up a certain amount of that exchange’s native tokens for allocation in another token that would soon be traded on that exchange.
A total of 114,772 participants committed 9,010,765.2954 BNB during the subscription period, representing an oversubscription of 1,066x. Users would receive 139.44 HOOK to 13,944 HOOK based on the BNB they lock up. The BNB would be returned to users after HOOK is distributed – minus a predetermined fixed amount ranging from 0.4 BNB to 4 BNB.
Hooked Protocol builds the on-ramp layer for Web3 applications and bespoke ""learn and earn"" products. HOOK is the governance token of the ecosystem, and is used to access community events and exclusive NFTs, and for in-app purchases, including game tools, for dapps built on Hooked.
Hooked Protocol has raised over $6 million from two rounds of private token sales earlier this year and has a current valuation of $60 million. The total supply of HOOK is 500 million and the circulating supply upon listing will be 50 million.
Art Basel (Miami Beach)
International Symposium on Blockchain Advancements (Singapore)
Philippine Blockchain Week (Philippines)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Sam Bankman-Fried: 'I Didn’t Knowingly Commingle Funds'; Binance Exec on Crypto Industry Recovery Initiative
The crypto community is reacting to Sam Bankman-Fried's New York Times interview in which he expressed regret over his exchange's collapse but stopped short of admitting fraud. Binance Chief Strategy Officer Patrick Hillmann joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the exchange's crypto industry recovery initiative. Also, MakerDAO founder Rune Christensen joined ""First Mover"" to talk about on the future of decentralized lending.
US CFTC Commissioner Cites Latest Crypto Sanction in Call for New Rules: Commissioner Kristin Johnson is pushing for her agency to work on policies to further tighten custody of customer assets as the CFTC sanctions another crypto Ponzi scheme.
Magic Eden Launches Protocol to Enforce Creator Royalties: The top marketplace for Solana NFTs had moved to an optional creator royalty model in October.
Binance Exec Says Firm's 'Centralized Exchange' May Not Be Around in 10 Years: Chief Strategy Officer Patrick Hillman said the exchange may become obsolete because of the crypto industry's move toward decentralized finance.
FTX Collapse Highlights Need for Global Crypto Regulations, Says US Treasury’s Adeyemo, Reuters Reports: Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo said such regulations are important to ensure the protection of investors, consumers and financial stability.
Crypto Industry a Disaster in Need of Rebranding, UK Lawmaker Says: Lord Cromwell begs the industry to leave its ""bad boats"" to burn out at sea and ditch the word ""crypto"" following the FTX collapse."
481,904,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/05/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-hovers-near-173k-but-does-it-have-staying-power/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Hovers Near $17.3K, but Does It Have Staying Power?","ALSO: Sam Reynolds writes that DeFi total value has been rallying recently after tumbling in mid-November, a sign that investors believe in DeFi's potential.",2022-12-05,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin clung to its most recent perch comfortably above $17K as investors continue to hope for a more dovish U.S. central bank.
Insights: DeFi total value locked continued its recent rebound over the weekend.
Bitcoin Holds Steady Over $17K
By James Rubin
Is $17,000 the new $16,000 for Bitcoin?
Will a recent uptick in investor optimism about the economy outweigh worries about the fallout from crypto exchange FTX's collapse?
Crypto markets remained noncommittal over the weekend.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading near $17,300, an almost 2% gain over the past 24 hours and consistent with its performance for the past five days.
BTC climbed above $17,000 on Wednesday and has held fast above this support following dovish remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, who indicated a day later that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) would likely raise interest rates 50 basis points (bps) instead of continuing its current diet of 75 bps increases. Powell noted encouraging signs that inflation and the still vibrant job market were slowing.
In an email to CoinDesk, Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote that ""the market"" had ""responded positively to Powell's speech, although he added that ""we may want to see bitcoin consolidating above $17K and possibly testing $20K before we expect a sustained recovery.""
""On the downside, $16K is a key support, losing which we are likely to see bitcoin trending lower,"" DiPasquale wrote.
Ether remained steadfast near $1,300, up about 3%. On Dec. 1, CoinDesk market analyst Glenn Williams noted that ether's price had outperformed bitcoin over the previous 10 days, increasing 15.4% versus BTC's 7.7% rise. Williams wrote that a so-called crossover of the ETH/BTC 10-day moving average above the 100-day moving average is often a bullish sign, although he added that the recent sample size is still too small to come to a conclusion.
Other major cryptos were largely in the green with SOL, the token of the smart contracts Solana blockchain platform, rising more than 4%, and ATOM, the token of the decentralized blockchain network, Cosmos, recently up more than 3%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, jumped almost 1.5%.
U.S. stock indexes traded roughly sideways on Friday after an encouraging week that saw the S&P 500 climb above its 200-day moving average for the first time since the spring. The S&P, which has a strong component, fell 0.1% on Friday but was up 1.5% for the week. The tech-heavy Nasdaq inched down 0.2% on Friday.
Investors will be eyeing the U.S. Commerce Department's Monday release of durable goods orders for November, with initial projections for a second consecutive 1% gain month-over-month. On Friday, the University of Michigan's widely watched consumer sentiment index is expected to tick up a few fractions of a percentage point in its preliminary December reading from the the previous month.
In a weekly note to investors, First Republic Bank noted a slowdown in manufacturing, ""showing broader economic growth is moderating,"" but also highlighted improvements in the supply chain that had lowered costs, calling the reductions ""encouraging news on the inflation front.""
Meanwhile, Sam Bankman-Fried continued his recent tour of semi-confessional interviews, with the former FTX CEO telling The Wall Street Journal: ""I ask myself a lot how I made a series of mistakes that just don't seem dumb, they seem like the type of mistakes I could see myself having ridiculed someone else for having making.""
BitBull's DiPasquale wrote that he will be watching the impact of upcoming FTX hearings related to its filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. along with the outcome of the December FOMC meeting. ""Any dovish comments then could see the market moving higher,"" he wrote of the latter.
DeFi TVL Continues Its Recent Momentum
By Sam Reynolds
Crypto investors have been focusing hard lately on the wider impact of crypto exchange FTX’s collapse and macroeconomic uncertainties. They have watched bitcoin hover at $17,000 support after wrestling with $16,000 for large portions of November. Will it tip lower or higher in the weeks ahead?
Overlooked in the focus on pricing is the slow, steady recovery in the total value locked (TVL) in decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols. Data from DeFi Llama, a DeFi aggregator for TVL, shows that TVL is trickling back to the 10 biggest DeFi protocols on Ethereum as asset prices rise.
The increase follows the implosion of TVL in Solana-based protocols in mid-November because of a lack of confidence in a platform that’s perceived as being closely tied to Sam Bankman-Fried, and due to falling asset prices.
Lido has seen its TVL increase by 3.69% during the last week, Curve is up 3%, and Compound Finance’s TVL is up by about 4.6%. Derivatives Decentralized Exchange GMX has seen its TVL rise by 6%.
The high correlation between the rise of TVL in major DeFi protocols and climbing token prices is a good thing, signaling that there’s still continued trust in DeFi, and that assets aren’t being withdrawn. Nansen data shows that protocols such as Curve.fi and dYdx have continued inflows of stablecoins during the past week.
The market’s continued confidence in DeFi is impressive, given ongoing concerns about security. Just last week another DeFi protocol, Ankr, was exploited because of shoddy code found by an attacker. Granted, Binance had frozen a significant amount of the stolen assets – but these major DeFi hacks seem to be a bimonthly occurrence.
Investors, nevertheless, appear willing to overlook such events, and instead, seem more focused on DeFi’s potential.
10:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(2:00 UTC) European Union Retail Sales (YoY/Oct)
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) United States ISM Services PMI (Nov)
3:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(19:30 UTC) Reserve Bank of Australia Interest Rate Decision
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Slips After November Jobs Report; US Justice Dept Calls for Independent Probe of Alleged FTX Fraud
The U.S. economy added 263,000 jobs in November, more than expected. The unemployment rate remained the same at 3.7%. Oanda Senior Market Analyst of the Americas Edward Moya discussed the impact of the new economic report on crypto markets. Following the FTX crash, could regulation go too far? Tonya Evans, Penn State Dickinson Law professor, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss. Plus, CoinDesk's Margaux Nijkerk explained why Dogechain is different from dogecoin.
Bitcoin Miners’ FTX Contagion Exposure May Amplify Industry Pain: Core Scientific, Bitfarms and Genesis Digital Assets are among miners that have direct and indirect exposures to the fallout.
FTX Japan Plans to Restart Local Customer Withdrawals: The crypto exchange's subsidiary has confirmed Japanese customer funds will remain separate from the ongoing bankruptcy proceedings in the U.S.
Avalanche-Based DEX Trader Joe to Soon Deploy on Ethereum Scaling System Arbitrum: Trader Joe locked up over $95 million worth of tokens as of Friday and is among the most popular Avalanche-based products.
Dogecoin's Bitcoin-Beating Bounce May Be Bad News for the Market: In the past, outsized gains in DOGE have paved the way for a broader market sell-off.
US Justice Department Wants FTX Fraud Allegations to Be Investigated: The collapse was described as the ""fastest big corporate failure in American history,"" in a court filing."
482,497,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/05/defi-risk-sharing-protocol-nexus-expects-loss-on-maple-credit-pool-investment-as-ftx-contagion-widens/,DeFi Risk-Sharing Protocol Nexus Expects Loss on Maple Credit Pool Investment as FTX Contagion Widens,"Nexus Mutual, which offers an insurance alternative for decentralized finance traders, deposited some $19 million in ETH to Maple’s wrapped ether credit pool, which was rocked by Orthogonal Trading’s recent default.",2022-12-05,"Insurance alternative Nexus Mutual is expecting to take a loss on its investment in a credit pool on Maple Finance, a large decentralized lending platform, according to a statement released Monday.
Nexus warned about a potential loss of 2,461 ether (ETH), some $3 million, from Orthogonal Trading’s recent default and said it started to withdraw all funds from the affected wrapped ether credit pool. This represents 1.6% of Nexus' assets, according to the statement.
In August, Nexus deposited 15,463 ETH, worth some $19.3 million at current price, into a wrapped ether credit pool on Maple Finance following community voting. Nexus is a peer-to-peer, risk-sharing protocol offering an alternative to insurance against risks such as DAO hacks and smart contract bugs in decentralized finance (DeFi). It is governed by a community of NXM token holders.
However, more Nexus funds appear to be endangered. Orthogonal Trading’s defaulted debt on Maple’s wrapped ether credit pool amounts to some $5 million (3,900 wETH). On top of that, embattled market maker Auros Global failed to repay a $3.1 million (2,400 wETH) loan and has another $7.5 million (6,000 wETH) in active loans outstanding from the same pool.
The troubled debt represents 56% of the $27.8 million outstanding debt in the wETH credit pool, according to Maple’s credit dashboard. Only $3.1 million in cash deposits are not actively tied up in loans, which limits Nexus’ ability to withdraw funds. Maple has a 10-day waiting period before depositors can withdraw capital.
Nexus Mutual’s warning comes as contagion from the implosion of FTX, once one of the world’s largest crypto exchanges, spreads to DeFi lending protocols. Orthogonal Trading received a default notice for a total of $36 million loans on Maple after it allegedly misrepresented its losses from the FTX fallout to creditors. Auros Global said last week it is facing “short-term liquidity issues” and missed payment on a loan from Maple.
Read more: FTX Contagion Spreads as Orthogonal Trading Gets Default Notice for $36M Debt on Maple Finance"
483,1038,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/12/05/the-contagion-fever-breaks-nfts-dominate-art-basel/,The Contagion Fever Breaks: NFTs Dominate Art Basel,Subtitle not found,2022-12-05,"MIAMI — “We were never big wedding people,” said artist Kelly Daniels after marrying health care executive Emir Muhovic during a small ceremony set up at the Scope Art Show in Miami Beach on Dec. 5.
At one of the largest art exhibitions taking place during Art Basel this year, the nuptials looked different than a typical courthouse wedding. The newlyweds, married by artist Jimmy Pierce, minted their wedding as a collection of non-fungible tokens (NFT). This includes their vows, marriage license and wedding photos built on the Flow blockchain and supported by NFT powerhouse Dapper Labs.
Pierce, the artist behind Seeds of Happiness, a digital art collection, told CoinDesk that after Daniels and Muhovic reached out to him asking to officiate the wedding, he became ordained in the state of Florida to support the couple in their wishes to get married at his exhibition.
Though it was not the first wedding to incorporate blockchain technology into its programming, the unconventional gathering of about 30 people rounded out a vibrant week of parties, panels and brand activations that focused on the intersection of art and technology. And while many in the space are still defrosting after an extended crypto winter, the wedding highlighted the generally sunny atmosphere in Miami this week, which was focused on long-term building and growth.
“NFTs, blockchain – it’s here forever, and we might as well do it with that frame of mind,” said Muhovic on the decision to enshrine their vows as NFTs. “Just like our marriage!” chimed in Daniels.
Miami’s annual Art Basel festival, now in its 20th year, connects galleries, artists and collectors to create unique artist-led experiences and bolster local art scenes. This year, the event welcomed over 76,000 attendees from 88 countries in the first week of December.
While the festival focuses primarily on fine and contemporary art, NFTs have slowly worked their way into the cultural conversation. Last year’s event showed glimpses of the physical and digital worlds colliding thanks to the hype of 2021 that led to a bull run of NFTs, while this year’s event saw them become more holistically combined, with NFT projects and blockchain companies weaving their way into galleries and events across the city.
The welcoming of NFTs into traditional art spaces comes at a time when the crypto industry has been marred by scandal and uncertainty. Over the past year, crypto ecosystem Terra collapsed, crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital filed for bankruptcy protection and one of the largest crypto exchanges, FTX, crumbled, bringing a number of companies down with it. In addition, the price of ether, which powers many NFT projects, is down 60% since the start of this year and NFT trading volume has taken a dive.
Despite this, NFT artists, builders, developers and collectors showed up en masse to support a collaborative vision for Web3.
On Wednesday night, Keith Grossman, who is exiting his role as president at Time Magazine to become president of crypto payments firm Moonpay, hosted a dinner to celebrate Time Pieces, an NFT collection honoring historical moments from the 99-year-old publication’s history.
At the dinner, crypto executives, NFT artists and Web3 thought leaders gathered at the National Hotel to not only to celebrate Grossman’s crypto career pivot, but also to inspire forward thinking about the future of the space.
At the dinner, Miami's mayor, and crypto innovator, Francis Suarez addressed guests and encouraged them to keep creating despite chilly market conditions.
“When we’re creating, there are going to be car crashes. But it’s wonderful to have a network of people who are here supporting you, have incredible knowledge of this nascent technology and are going to pave the way for the future,” Suarez told the crowd of about 100 people.
During the dinner, Dave Krugman, photographer and founder of creative agency Allships, told CoinDesk that 2022’s art week differed from last year in that it emphasized the passion that builders in the space continue to show.
“In a market where everyone can win and everyone can make a lot of money, there's not a lot of conviction there,” said Krugman. “We're starting to wake up to the fact that this next layer of the internet is here to stay, and brands are coming in, despite the market conditions.”
Allships hosted networking brunches over three days in partnership with CoinDesk and blockchain ecosystem Near that brought together creative minds and shapers in the Web3 space. Megan Kaspar, managing director of crypto investment firm Firstlight and founder Web3 fashion house of Red DAO, told CoinDesk that despite current market conditions that cast a shadow over festivities, the volume of Web3-focused events paired with high attendance for those events was a positive sign.
“The morale of the community is really high right now, which is great to see especially with the collapse of FTX and crypto winter and all of the things that our space is going through from the downside perspective. There’s a lot of upside coming,” said Kaspar.
Kaspar hosted a Metaverse Fashion Week brunch in Miami, bringing together the leaders shaping the digital fashion industry such as Nico Fara, founder of The Fashion DAO community; Julien R., head of growth at digital fashion company DRESSX; and Aurelia Ammour, CEO of NFT sneaker company SHOES 53045.
“Last year, when I hosted the event, about half of the people who attended this year showed up,” said Kaspar. “More people are aware of digital fashion and the opportunity it provides not only to the crypto ecosystem, but to the actual fashion industry as a whole. It’s great to see the two worlds merge.”
Shiva Rajaraman, vice president of Product at OpenSea, also shared positive insights into how the NFT market is evolving through market waves, particularly when it comes to discussions on utility and long-term value of the digital assets.
Rajaraman told CoinDesk that while last year’s NFT hype cycle centered on self-expression and community affiliation, the injection of utility into projects is shaping a new narrative that “bleeds into the digital world and the physical world.”
“You have a lot of projects talking about logistics now, and how can I unlock an NFT and get a T-shirt, a bag, access to a real-world event,” said Rajaraman. “People are starting to get more sophisticated about that business model.”
It’s likely we’ll start to see more of these use cases pop up as people begin to explore how to integrate NFTs far beyond their value as just collectible items – including, it appears, as a tool for memorializing weddings.
Amanda Cassatt, CEO of Web3 marketing firm Serotonin, told CoinDesk at NFT Now’s immersive Gateway activation in downtown Miami that the energy at Art Basel further emphasized the importance of firms embracing these technologies as they build out their products.
“It’s time that every brand has their Web3 strategy,” said Cassatt. “I think every company is going to become a Web3 company, and the bear market is the perfect time to build and start working on that.”"
484,126,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/05/bankman-fried-is-a-master-of-deflection-securities-lawyer-says/,"Bankman-Fried Is a ‘Master of Deflection,’ Securities Lawyer Says",James Murphy said the FTX founder has used his interviews with the media to say falsely that his actions weren't intentional.,2022-12-05,"Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried’s attempts to change the narrative won’t prevent his imminently unavoidable day in U.S. court, said James Murphy, former founder and chairman of financial-services law firm Murphy & McGonigle.
“What he’s trying to do is creating narrative that he didn’t do anything wrongful with intention, because that’s what gets you prosecuted criminally,” Murphy said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” on Monday.
Bankman-Fried is coming under fire for his attempts at using the media to form his own version of events. That comes as crypto exchange FTX faces bankruptcy proceedings after a CoinDesk report revealed that Alameda Research, an affiliated trading firm that Bankman-Fried also owned, held substantial amounts of FTX’s native token, FTT, on its balance sheet.
“He wants to position himself as super transparent about everything that happened at FTX and Alameda, and he’s been anything but that,” Murphy said in reference to Bankman-Fried's series of interviews.
“He is a master of deflection, and you see this often with con men who really believe they can convince the world of what they’re saying,” Murphy said.
Despite Bankman-Fried’s attempts at being “transparent,” the disgraced CEO isn’t actually answering reporters’ questions, according to Murphy. Last week, New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin probed Bankman-Fried, albeit with a significant number of “handicaps,” in place.
“Sam Bankman-Fried was not under oath. He wasn’t even in the same room, so you can’t really cross-examine him,” Murphy said, adding that although Sorkin asked a number of questions Murphy would have asked, Bankman-Fried continued to deflect.
Read more: What a Securities Lawyer Would Ask FTX’s Bankman-Fried / Opinion
“He would simply answer a completely different question,” Murphy said.
Bankman-Fried, whose media appearances has gone against the advice of his attorneys, could be facing criminal charges if a court determines that he was intentional about mishandling customer funds. So far, however, Bankman-Fried has been “careful” about his responses, which Murphy said is an attempt to portray his actions as “negligence rather than intentional wrongdoing.”
The Bahamas-based exchange could be in violation of U.S. law, considering that its collapse affected U.S. citizens and that FTX’s terms of service were “quite clear,"" Murphy said.
“If you send money to an exchange and that exchange says, ‘We will hold your money. It's your property. We will not exercise any dominion. We won’t take your money and invest it in some way or give it to a third party.’ That's fraud,” Murphy said.
“The case is quite solid,” he added, noting the amount of of evidence already made public, including the affidavit from FTX replacement CEO John Ray III and the “special software” that was deployed in hopes of obscuring transaction activity, is a “real telltale sign prosecutor's love to show.”
Read more: FTX Violated Its Own Terms of Service and Misused User Funds, Lawyers Say"
485,907,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/05/cryptocoms-cro-surges-as-it-launches-world-cup-nfts-with-coca-cola/,Crypto.com’s CRO Surges as It Launches World Cup NFTs With Coca-Cola,"10,000 NFTs will be hosted on Crypto.com’s blockchain based on ""heatmaps’""from World Cup matches.",2022-12-05,"Crypto.com’s CRO token (CRO) is gaining in value Monday on the back of news the exchange is teaming up with Coca-Cola to launch a series of non-fungible tokens (NFT) celebrating the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar.
CRO climbed as much as 10% after the press release hit, and though it slipped to a 8.5% advance at press time CRO remains one of the top performing digital assets on the day.
However, CRO remains lower by about 50% over the past month in the FTX-related crumbling in the cryptocurrency markets. CRO is down nearly 90% year over year.
Read More: Crypto.com CEO Dismisses Speculation of Financial Trouble, Says FTX Exposure Is Minimal
Crypto.com said it would be hosting on its blockchain 10,000 NFTs created by Coca-Cola and digital artist GMUNK. The NFTs were produced by tracking via so-called “heatmaps” the in-game movements of players during matches at the Qatar World Cup.
Fans can buy the NFTs after they sign up for a Crypto.com NFT platform account. For a chance to win a Coca-Cola “Piece of Magic” NFT, fans can register on Coca-Cola’s fanzone website.
“This year’s FIFA World Cup will be the first to leverage Web3 technology,” Steven Kalifowitz, chief marketing officer at Crypto.com, said in the release. “It’s a privilege to partner with Coca-Cola and GMUNK to memorialize these historical matches that will forever be captured on the blockchain. Together we are creating a completely new form of memorabilia.”"
486,462,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/05/crypto-markets-today-ftx-fallout-hits-maple-finance-bitcoin-declines/,Crypto Markets Today: FTX Fallout Hits Maple Finance; Bitcoin Declines,"Orthogonal Trading received a default notice, while crypto leader Nexo decided to depart from the U.S. after regulatory discussions hit a “dead end.”",2022-12-05,"Blockchain-based lending platform Maple Finance severed ties with crypto firm Orthogonal Trading, alleging it was ""misrepresenting its financial position."" The move is yet more fallout from the implosion of the FTX crypto exchange.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The action came after Orthogonal was due to pay back a $10 million USDC stablecoin loan from a credit pool managed by M11 Credit on Dec. 4. Orthogonal has been a significant borrower on Maple, and also was a manager and underwriter of a credit pool on Maple.
M11 Credit has issued a notice of default to Orthogonal for all active loans outstanding from the USDC stablecoin pool on Maple, with $31 million of current liabilities in four loans.
The default notice also extends to Orthogonal's wrapped ether (wETH) loans worth $5 million (3,900 wETH) from Maple's another M11 Credit-managed lending facility, M11 Credit confirmed to CoinDesk.
Maple said in a statement that Orthogonal has been ""operating while effectively insolvent,"" and didn't communicate that it would be unable to service the debt.
A default by Orthogonal could deal another blow to undercollateralized lending protocols grappling with liquidity crunch, and the fallout from crypto exchange FTX's implosion.
Orthogonal's default marks the second time a borrower defaulted on Maple after Babel Finance's failure to service its debt in June. Earlier this fall, crypto firms Blockwater and Invictus Capital defaulted on their loans on rival unsecured lending protocol TrueFi.
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH): The top currency by market cap slid roughly 0.8% to $16,940 after holding above the $17,000 level earlier in the day. It traded as high as $17,412 in the past 24 hours before falling. Bitcoin traded at a significant discount to its 200-day average. Ether followed a similar pattern, trading down 1.8% to $1,250. Traditional markets seem to have re-embraced riskier assets, at least temporarily.
Crypto.com’s CRO: The token was gaining in value Monday following news that the exchange is teaming up with Coca-Cola to launch a series of non-fungible tokens (NFT) celebrating the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. CRO climbed as much as 10% after the press release hit, and though it slipped to a 4% advance at the time of publication, CRO remains one of the day’s top performing digital assets.
Equities: Major indexes turned red on Monday. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite closed down 1.79% and 1.93%, respectively, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 1.4%. The downturn came after a higher-than-expected Institute for Supply Management November services raised investor concerns about the Federal Reserve’s plan to raise interest rates in December.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Many economic indicators now point to relatively mild price action in the short term for crypto markets.
A decline in savings offers compelling evidence of cryptos' likely, continued calm. Inflation growth has exceeded wage increases for nearly two years.
As shown in the below graphic from Compound Advisers, prices continue to increase at a faster pace than incomes. Not surprisingly, this trend has led to sharp increases in U.S. revolving debt balances. In turn, the personal savings rate in the U.S. has fallen to its second-lowest rate in close to 60 years.
Read the full technical take here.
Collectible Avatars, a set of art tokens based on the Polygon blockchain by social network Reddit, set a minting record of more than 255,000 unique avatars on Saturday, data queried by Dune Analytics shows. The figures eclipsed the previous high of 200,000 in August, nearly a month after the collectibles went live. More than 98,000 avatars from The Singularity collection were produced, the most on that day, followed by 58,000 avatars from Aww Friends.
Crypto lender Nexo said Monday it would stop offering products and services in the U.S. in the coming months, would immediately halt access to its Earn Interest Product in eight states and is no longer signing up any new U.S. customers to the Earn product. Nexo said it had been in talks with both state and federal regulators in the U.S., but these had come to a ""dead end.""
Genesis customers whose money is locked up on the trading and lending platform - and who have taken legal advice on the matter - currently account for some $1.8 billion of loans, according to a person familiar with the situation. And that number looks like it will continue to grow. Genesis is a CoinDesk sister company.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at some of the right questions to ask Sam Bankman-Fried.
Crypto Bank Silvergate Cut to Underweight at Morgan Stanley Following FTX Collapse
Kentucky Investigating 2 Proposed Contracts That Would Give Discounted Electricity to Crypto Miners
New FTX CEO Testimony ‘False,’ Bankman-Fried Says
Bankman-Fried Is a ‘Master of Deflection,’ Securities Lawyer Says
Waves Blockchain Founder Explores New DAO Model to Improve Crypto Governance
Aave’s Social Media Protocol Lens Acquires NFT Mobile Game Sonar
Bybit to Lay Off 30% of Staff Amid Crypto Winter"
487,790,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/05/bank-of-america-say-regulation-is-key-for-mainstream-adoption-of-crypto/,Bank of America Says Regulation Is Key for Mainstream Adoption of Crypto,"Despite the correction in cryptocurrency markets, the development of blockchain technology has accelerated, a report from the bank said.",2022-12-05,"The bankruptcies of crypto exchange FTX and its affiliated trading firm, Alameda Research, are major blows to the cryptocurrency industry’s credibility, but there are silver linings, Bank of America (BAC) said in a research report Friday.
“An increased urgency for regulation may enable greater institutional engagement, and a shift in focus (and capital) from speculative trading to projects with real-world functionality and companies with road maps to profitability may accelerate industry maturity,” analysts Alkesh Shah and Andrew Moss wrote.
Regulatory frameworks for the crypto industry are critical for mainstream adoption, the report said, and a coordinated global effort is required to discourage regulatory arbitrage and to safeguard consumers and investors.
FTX’s collapse has refocused attention on the need for regulation that “creates a transparent legal framework for digital assets; fosters technological innovation; provides consumer and investor protections and mitigates financial stability risks,” the note said.
The bank noted that the top 100 crypto tokens have fallen 64% year to date, but pointed out they are still up 2,175% since the end of 2016. The cost of ignoring digital assets is high, it said.
The development of blockchains that are smart contract-enabled and applications with real-world use has accelerated this year, the report said. Speculative trading may be widespread, but it's the “underlying blockchain technology driving this speculation that could be revolutionary.”
Bank of America said that “retail and institutional disengagement” could further pressure crypto prices, but noted that digital-asset prices fell 22% between Nov. 2 and Nov. 10 before rising 6% through Nov. 25, which shows that investors may be moving on and are focused on blockchain technology’s long-term disruption potential.
Read more: Bernstein: Crypto User Activity Is Moving On-Chain Following FTX’s Collapse"
488,792,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/05/malta-seeks-to-remove-nfts-from-crypto-law/,Malta Seeks to Remove NFTs From Crypto Law,The move anticipates new EU legislation by excluding non-fungible assets.,2022-12-05,"Malta’s Financial Services Authority said Monday it wants to remove service providers for non-fungible tokens (NFTs) from the scope of its 2018 virtual-assets law as it prepares for new European Union crypto legislation.
The country’s 2018 Virtual Financial Assets (VFAs) Act requires service providers to be authorized and to publish white papers of investor information before they issue a digital token. That goes further than the EU’s Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA), which is set to apply in Malta and across the bloc in 2024.
“The authority considers that it would be prudent that certain VFAs, which display clear characteristics of uniqueness and non-fungibility, also be excluded from the VFA framework,” the regulator said in a ""consultation"" paper. During a period of consultation, interested parties can provide feedback to proposed rule changes. The consultation period will end on Jan. 6.
NFTs, a digital record of ownership of an asset like artwork or real estate, had limited use for investment or payment purposes, the Maltese regulator said. Under the final draft of MiCA, NFT service providers won’t have to register as long as their assets are assessed as being genuinely non-fungible.
Malta, one of the EU’s smallest member states, was one of the first to set its own crypto registration regime. Its existing law includes most NFTs.
Read more: EU’s MiCA Law May Have an FTX-Shaped Loophole"
489,1037,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/06/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-falls-on-inflation-fears-but-continues-its-ride-above-17k/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Falls on Inflation Fears but Continues Its Ride Above $17K,ALSO: Sam Reynolds writes that Taiwan-based technology conglomerate HTC is looking to take its virtual headset business public in the U.S. as part of a quest to help cultivate the metaverse. But is the company going in the wrong direction?,2022-12-06,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other crypto prices fall along with other riskier assets amid concerns the U.S. economy isn't slowing enough.
Insights: Is Taiwan's technology manufacturer HTC betting too much on the success of the metaverse? The company is reportedly looking to take its virtual headset unit public in the U.S.
Bitcoin Has a Sinking Feeling
By James Rubin
Crypto markets didn't like the sound of good economic news, sending prices downward on Monday.
Bitcoin was recently trading down 1.1% over the past 24 hours, although it clung above its $17,000 support of the last six days. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has seemingly recovered from a mid-November swoon following the implosion of crypto exchange FTX, although it remains subject to more minor winds that have had it dipping and rising in smallish increments on larger macroeconomic events.
On Monday, the Institute of Supply Management's unexpectedly strong November services index fueled fears anew that the U.S. economy would require the U.S. Federal Reserve to administer a longer-term dosage of harsh interest rate hikes than had been hoped in mid-November when the Consumer Price Index fell. The ISM services report came just three days after a hot jobs report raised concerns that the economy was not contracting enough and that inflation would remain problematic. In recent months, inflationary worries have often dictated the performance of asset markets.
""Bitcoin’s earlier gains evaporated after a hot ISM services report fueled bets that the Fed could tighten much more than markets are currently pricing,"" wrote Edward Moya, senior market analyst at foreign exchange market maker Oanda.
Ether was recently changing hands above $1,260, down more than 2% from Sunday, same time. Other major cryptos spent much of the day in the red with CRO, the token of the Crypto.com exchange off more than 4% and DOT, the cryptocurrency of blockchain interoperability protocol Polkadot, sinking more than 3%. AXS, the token of gaming platform Axie Infinity, was up nearly 20% to trade at more than $8.40.
Crypto prices largely tracked equity markets, which sank amid interest rate concerns fueled by the ISM report. The tech heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500, which has a strong technology component, dropped 1.9% and 1.8%, respectively. The Wall Street Journal reported that food and beverage giant PepsiCo would be laying off hundreds of workers in North America amid company worries about shrinking volume.
Meanwhile, the recent decline in U.S. consumer savings rates to their second lowest level in 60 years suggest that crypto markets are likely to remain calm for at least the near future, wrote CoinDesk analyst Glenn Williams on Monday. ""As retail investors comprise a sizable portion of crypto investors, the continued erosion of buying power will likely weigh upon bitcoin and ether prices.,"" Williams wrote. ""We face a cocktail of higher interest rates, decreased buying power and increased levels of debt.""
And Katie Talati, head of research at crypto investment firm Arca, noted with cautious optimism on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that crypto prices have likely bottomed out. ""I don't make price predictions, but I think we probably saw the bottom in terms of market prices and sentiment in the last few weeks,"" Talati said.
By Sam Reynolds
Taipei-based technology manufacturer HTC is reportedly looking to take its virtual headset business public in the United States, Taiwanese media report, as part of a larger quest to play a pioneering role in the metaverse.
But in IPOing its VR business, the company might be making a mistake it made years ago with its electric scooter arm called Gogoro. There are plenty of parallels between the two: What began as a niche product suddenly became more mainstream – and the market didn’t appreciate this. Fundamental questions have also arisen about the future of the metaverse.
VR, an HTC bright spot
Virtual reality has been a bright spot for HTC, a company that has otherwise seen its balance sheet effectively dissolve during the last decade. At the start of the Obama administration in the U.S., HTC was a mobile phone giant, helping pioneer the Android ecosystem, peaking at a market share of 10% in 2011 and overtaking Nokia in market value, which at the time benefited from financial backing and a partnership with Microsoft.
But it has been in free fall since, hitting 2% of the smartphone market share in 2015, and now it is too small to have its shipments tracked by research houses including IDC and Statcounter.
Looking to turn the company around, HTC launched the Vive VR headset in 2016 to mixed reviews. It was still a medium in development, with the hardware and software technology languishing behind consumer expectations.
Facebook, which acquired Vive-rival Oculus in 2014 for $2 billion, was in a similar conundrum. CNBC said in 2017 that its bet on VR was one of Mark “Zuckerberg’s rare mistakes.” This wasn’t going anywhere as “nobody wants to be social in VR” and there was no compelling game for it.
Meanwhile, HTC’s balance sheet was still a sinking ship, and in 2017, Google came to the rescue with a $1.1 billion investment in HTC’s mobile phone manufacturing division so that Google would have a manufacturing partner for its Pixel phones.
VR continued to languish for the next few years. Reviewers still saw it as a niche product, with obvious enterprise and commercial applications, but no “killer app” for gamers and retail users that would make a headset a must-have.
“The VR revolution is alive and well, it’s just not ready for you,” Gizmodo’s Sam Rutherford wrote in 2019. “It’s [going] to take a bit longer to become mainstream than people initially thought. Be patient, your VR dreams are still alive and well.”
Mobile headsets and metaverse
VR got its first boost in consumer interest with the release of the stand-alone Oculus Quest headset in 2019, as analysts pointed to the lower price point and its untethered nature as piquing the interests of consumers.
As standalone devices powered by the same chips that went into smartphones, they couldn’t push out realistic graphics like PC-tethered headsets, but they were cheap and fun with games finally arriving, which is what consumers wanted.
By mid-2021 there was a mini-boom in standalone headsets like the Oculus Quest 2 and Vive Focus. HTC was still a money-losing entity, but its balance sheet was improving.
And then came Facebook’s headfirst dive into the metaverse and VR.
Quality concerns about Facebook’s VR and metaverse platforms aside, at first, investors were intrigued.
In Taiwan, HTC’s stock became a proxy for the metaverse, gaining nearly 130% during the last quarter of 2021. VR headset shipments were growing at a rate not seen since 2016, but HTC faced a competitive market from its rivals.
Even as the metaverse bubble popped, and Meta’s stock, along with the metaverse major tokens began their year-long plunge, HTC hasn’t performed that badly.
While HTC (2498) has underperformed Taiwan’s TAIEX index year to date, losing 28.6% versus 19%, it has bettered Meta, which is down 63% and Sandbox, which is off 53%.
There still is a lot of value to the company, the market has determined, despite the wheels coming off all things metaverse.
Parallels to Gogoro
Scooters dominate the road in Taipei, and many belch out exhaust via their two-stroke engines.
In 2015, two former HTC executives launched a solution: Gogoro. While electric scooters aren’t a new technology, a network of battery-swapping stations is. The company raised a round of $150 million led by HTC founder Cher Wang, and incubated some of its early tech in its facilities. But it passed on the opportunity to make it a full subsidiary.
While Gogoro had its initial skeptics, in the years since it has managed to grab a 9% market share. In April 2022, the company went public on the Nasdaq via a SPAC but investors weren’t that impressed.
Year to date, the company has posted losses of 62%, compared to HTC’s 30%. While Gogoro does have solid cash flow and licensing agreements for its battery-swapping technology, it isn’t profitable, only posting net income during the last quarter because of a favorable charge on warrants on the books.
Certainly, if Vive were to be spun off into an initial public offering there would be similar results. We don’t know how much Vive accounts for revenue at HTC, as it is bundled together with smartphones and other electronic equipment. But it's likely not profitable.
Gogoro was pushed early into an initial public offering because its backers, like HTC’s Cher Wang, needed a quick buck (HTC is a money-losing entity, after all). Wang probably regrets not buying a more significant stake of Gogoro as an investor and bringing it closer into the HTC fold, as it would undoubtedly be a success story for the company – and a more proven product than VR.
Despite the advancements of the last four years, VR still needs more time for incubation. Vive’s performance on the stock market will be predictable, and likely just track the ups and downs of Meta. But HTC needs the cash infusion, and there’s no obvious private buyer available.
The company is hoping the metaverse finds a firm foothold.
11:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(3:30 UTC) Reserve Bank of Australia Interest Rate Decision
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Goods and Services Trade Balance (Oct)
11:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(15:00 UTC) Canada's Ivey Purchasing Managers Index (Nov)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Most Influential 2022; Genesis Creditor Groups' Loans Amount to $1.8B and Counting: Sources
$1.8 billion and possibly more. That's how much CoinDesk sources say Genesis owes in loans to customers with funds locked up on the crypto trading and lending platform. Nikhilesh De had the latest involving Genesis, which, like CoinDesk, is owned by Digital Currency Group (DCG). Plus, Katie Talati, Arca head of research, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss her crypto markets outlook. And, it's time to unveil CoinDesk's Most Influential 2022, the definitive list of the biggest change makers in crypto, blockchain and Web3.
Introducing Consensus Magazine, Putting Web3 in Perspective: Magazines are powerful when they spark dialogue about what’s happening now and could happen in the future. That’s Consensus all over, so we’re renaming Layer 2 after CoinDesk’s annual event.
Presenting CoinDesk's Most Influential 2022: Fifty stories of the people who defined the year in crypto
Aave’s Social Media Protocol Lens Acquires NFT Mobile Game Sonar: With the acquisition, Lens Protocol will be integrated into a game app which claims to have 20,000 active users per month.
The Contagion Fever Breaks, NFTs Dominate Art Basel: The price of ether is down nearly 65% since last year’s Miami Art Week. But this year’s art fair saw an uptick in events, attendees and conversations around Web3 technologies and their road map to mass adoption.
Nexo to Depart US After Regulator Discussions Hit 'Dead End': Nexo will immediately stop offering its Earn product in several U.S. states."
490,1036,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/06/exploring-bidens-executive-order-on-crypto-6-months-in/,"Exploring Biden’s Executive Order on Crypto, 6 Months In","I spoke to Carole House, a former White House adviser and one of the authors of President Joe Biden’s executive order on crypto.",2022-12-06,"You thought we’d talk more about FTX huh, didn’t you? We will, but not this week. CoinDesk published its annual Most Influential series on Monday, highlighting a number of regulators, lawmakers and similarly impactful individuals. I spoke to Carole House, one of the authors of the White House executive order on crypto, to take a look at the document, its origins and where we are now.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
I spoke with Carole House, a former National Security Council official with the White House and one of the authors of the Executive Order on Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets, about how the document came together and the results to date.
You can read the bulk of this in CoinDesk’s Most Influential series. But here’s some additional detail from our conversation.
It’s worth noting up front that many major questions about how the U.S. will regulate digital assets remain up in the air. A simmering turf war between the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission is no closer to conclusion than it was when the order first published. Whether and how the federal government may adopt policies supportive of blockchain development is also up in the air.
Still, we now have a clearer sense of how the government is approaching this. The White House and various executive branch departments have published the first few sets of reports, addressing a number of issues including considerations for a central bank digital currency, how crypto-related crimes might be prosecuted and how the U.S. sees itself on the world stage.
More reports are expected, including one addressing whether the Federal Reserve has the authority to issue a digital dollar and one examining what sort of regulatory gaps still exist within crypto oversight.
One of the White House’s documents, published in September, proposed a “comprehensive framework for [the] responsible development of digital assets,” which suggested a federal regulatory regime for nonbank payment providers, something crypto companies would want, given the current system of applying for state money transmitter licenses in each state the companies want to set up in.
“I’m totally thrilled with the reports that the White House issued, and I'm so proud of the entire interagency, for coming together and just creating this first ever comprehensive framework for responsible development of digital assets,” House said. “There's some incredibly innovative content and things that we've never seen before, certainly under any U.S. approach, and that I really don't see under many, if any, international approaches.”
To date, the departments of Treasury, Commerce and Justice, as well as the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, have published responses to the executive order. The Justice Department may have taken the most concrete action through two reports, creating a network of prosecutors who specialize in cryptocurrency crimes and recommending a number of laws to both better pursue cryptocurrency crimes and share more information about them with the department’s international partners.
The Commerce Department took a slightly different approach, reflecting the agency’s mission. In a September report, the department recommended more engagement with both private companies and international regulators “to promote development of digital asset policies … consistent with U.S. values and standards.”
This could include supporting educational initiatives and developing a workforce, the report said.
The Treasury Department has published the most reports and launched a request for comment process asking the general public to weigh in on certain illicit finance concerns.
“We had totally complementary White House documents, like research and development guidance that came out from the Office of Science Technology Policy, the critical emerging technologies list that pointed to distributed ledger technologies and digital assets as critical emerging technologies, lots of mutually reinforcing policy objectives that are pointing to the responsible development of the space as being beneficial to the U.S. for economic and national security purposes, but also demonstrating that it must be responsible development,” House said.
House stressed the importance of the “responsible development” aspect of the reports. Financial inclusion through decentralized systems could be greatly beneficial, but if this develops without any protections for consumers, “that is not, in fact, a desirable outcome.”
Much of the executive order does focus on assessing and mitigating risks, whether that’s money laundering risks, terrorist financing risk or financial stability risk.
“The second part of the [executive order], after it outlines all the policy objectives that the president had … that's where there were some very specific concrete actions that were directed or requested, like the request for the Financial Stability Oversight Council to assess the financial stability risks that are present in the space in the future of money reports,” House said.
The administration has willingly called for more public information in answering questions about cryptocurrencies’ role in illicit finance, the same area the executive order actually began. The department’s brief request-for-comment filing asks a number of questions.
Intriguingly, the analysis of risks goes all the way down to the personal. Part of the order directs an analysis on the potential of crypto to address financial inclusion concerns.
“[The order] recognizes that our assessment of the risks and potential benefits of digital assets must include an understanding of how our financial system does and does not meet the current needs of consumers in a manner that is equitable, inclusive and efficient,” a White House official said in March. “[Our] antiquated payment infrastructures [is] leaving the United States and its consumers with options that are slow, costly or altogether inaccessible, as is particularly true of cross border payments. That is why this executive order directs a report on the future of money and payments.”
This would seem to support the U.S.’ current research into central bank digital currencies and, in particular, whether the Fed should issue a digital dollar. The idea remains controversial, with CBDC opponents just generally disliking the concept of the U.S. central bank getting involved, and others skeptical that a token-based digital currency like what has been suggested would be able to meet the needs of this ambitious goal.
But to this end, one of the reports “tried to assess, from a very holistic picture, what the future of money looks like,” House said.
Noting the expansiveness of the executive order, House pointed to concerns over climate risks (on which the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy published a report earlier this year) as an example of one of the wide range of issues addressed.
The order didn’t only look at companies, it looked at broader ecological issues, namely climate change.
“Every policy objective, which outlined a lot of different discrete issues like we had, we pointed to climate risks, which is a huge priority for the administration,” House said.
Mind you, things are different now than they were when this order was drafted and published. Crypto’s 2022 has been marked by failures, bankruptcies and millions of dollars worth of crypto likely lost by investors. The collapses have run the gamut of issues regulators are paying attention to, ranging from stablecoins to lenders to exchanges.
Regulators are already evaluating whether existing or new laws would prevent the next Terra or Celsius. The scope of the issues crypto has seen this year should demonstrate the need for transparent communication about the industry, House said.
This ranges from decentralized finance (DeFi) to more centralized projects.
“A lot of this was foreseeable, and it's extremely unfortunate so many people have been hurt in these circumstances,” House said. “But ultimately, … there are the things that some members of the sector don't want to hear, which is that there has to be more effective regulation, in some cases, enforcement in other cases, and just implementation and compliance in others.”
N/A
(New York Magazine) Congress passed, and U.S. President Joe Biden signed, a bill intended to force U.S. rail unions to accept a new contract giving workers a raise and an additional personal day off, but not giving them any paid sick leave or addressing some of the broader concerns rail workers had about the industry. The unions were set to strike this week. New York Magazine’s Intelligencer runs down what the current status quo is, and how we got here. (See also this New York Times piece from September, and this Vice News piece.)
(Reuters) El Salvador President Nayib Bukele’s administration operates what appears to be a very sophisticated online PR operation, Reuters reports.
(The Wall Street Journal) Former SEC Chair Jay Clayton and former CFTC Chair Timothy Massad published an opinion piece suggesting how their former agencies could more closely regulate the industry without needing congressional action.
OMG still laughing. Please keep these coming. I feel like a kid on Christmas morning again. pic.twitter.com/PX0fLljCtT
All the smartest people I know are going into web3.

On an unrelated note, all of them are prosecutors.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
491,636,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/06/crypto-markets-today-fir-tree-suit-against-grayscale-adds-to-industrys-growing-woes/,Crypto Markets Today: Fir Tree Suit Against Grayscale Adds to Industry’s Growing Woes,"The hedge fund wants more details about the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, which has fallen in value by nearly 75% this year.",2022-12-06,"Hedge fund Fir Tree is suing crypto investment firm (and CoinDesk sister company) Grayscale to obtain details about its flagship Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), in order to investigate potential mismanagement and conflicts of interest, according to a report from Bloomberg.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Fir Tree also wants Grayscale to resume redemptions and cut fees for the trust, which is the world’s largest publicly traded crypto fund, with $10.7 billion in assets. It allows U.S. investors to gain exposure to price movements of bitcoin without buying the asset itself.
GBTC is selling at close to a record 43% discount to the price of the underlying bitcoin in the trust and is down almost 75% this year following bitcoin's sharp decline and the collapse of several high-profile crypto firms such as FTX.
Fir Tree wants to use the information it's seeking to pressure Grayscale to resume redemptions, which are not immediately available to investors, and to cut fees from the current 2%, according to Bloomberg's sources.
Fir Tree is known for making a large short bet against the stablecoin tether earlier this year.
A Grayscale spokesperson told CoinDesk the company's ""mission is to help investors access the ever-evolving crypto ecosystem through familiar, secure and transparent investment vehicles. We respect the views of our shareholders, and appreciate engaging directly with them on the details of our product structures and operating model.""
Bitcoin (BTC): The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading at roughly $17,000, flat in the past 24 hours. Despite investors’ nervousness about industry contagion linked to crypto exchange FTX’s implosion and other crises, BTC's share of the total crypto market has held steady at around 40%, countering its history of rising sharply during stressful times. Observers said the stagnant dominance rate reflects an exodus of investors from the market, among other factors.
Chainlink (LINK): The provider of price feeds and other data to blockchains has introduced staking of its native token LINK to its network to help keep the protocol secure. Staking will provide incentives that will enable the Chainlink system to grow, according to Chainlink co-founder Sergey Nazarov. He said the Chainlink network has enabled more than $6.6 trillion in transaction value this year. LINK was recently trading around $7, down 1.7% in the past 24 hours.
ApeCoin (APE): Over $30 million worth of APE tokens has been deposited into its contract one day after the Ape Foundation opened staking for its APE currency. The token, which is the native currency of the Yuga Labs ecosystem, was airdropped to holders of the Web3 collective’s mainstay non-fungible token (NFT) collections, Bored Ape Yacht Club and Mutant Ape Yacht Club, back in March. APE was trading up 5.4% to $4.1 as of publication time.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
An often-used measure of value in technical analysis and a more recent valuation metric specific to on-chain analysis are at odds at the moment. Each is relevant, depending on how fast an investor is looking to generate gains.
The more recent, bitcoin's MVRV (market-value-to-realized-value) ratio, measures the ratio of BTC's market capitalization to its realized capitalization. It implies BTC is trading cheaply on a relative basis and foreshadows likely future trends. MVRV readings above 3.7 indicate that an asset is overvalued, while readings below 1 indicate that an asset is undervalued.
With a current reading of 0.85, bitcoin's MVRV ratio has fallen to levels last seen in 2019, implying that current prices present a compelling entry point for long biased investors. For context, BTC prices were trading sub $5,000 during that time period.
Read the full technical take here.
Crypto firm Orthogonal, the victim of FTX-induced contagion, now faces internal dissent: Blockchain-based lending platform Maple Finance said Monday it had severed ties with Orthogonal Trading after the firm failed to make a $10 million payment that was due, triggering defaults across all of its debt within lending pools for the stablecoin USDC and wrapped ether (wETH). Maple said Orthogonal Trading had misrepresented its exposure to Sam Bankman-Fried’s collapsed FTX exchange. Now, officials with Orthogonal Credit have come forward with a Medium post claiming they were kept unapprised on the depth of Orthogonal Trading’s financial troubles and weren’t aware of the hole in the trading book.
Crypto-friendly bank Silvergate shares are adding to their roughly 50% decline since the FTX collapse, falling another 6.15% and touching a new 52-week low in Tuesday morning trade. The drop came after Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), John Kennedy (R-La.) and Roger Marshall (R-Kan.), in a letter late Monday evening, asked Silvergate for answers to its supposed role in facilitating transfers between bankrupt exchange FTX and its sister firm, Alameda Research.
Macro continued to struggle on Tuesday. The Nasdaq Composite and S&P 500 closed down 2% and 1.44%, respectively, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 1.03% as investors weighed the U.S. central bank’s likely 50 basis point interest rate hike at its next Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Dec. 14.
West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures, which try to anticipate the price of the energy benchmark and reflect market trends, dropped 3.3% to $74 a barrel. “Energy traders are not confidently buying dips, but they will if the current sell-off sends prices close to the levels the Biden Administration might refill the [Strategic Petroleum Reserve], which is in the $70 region,” Edward Moya, senior market analyst of the Americas at foreign exchange market maker Oanda, wrote in a Tuesday note.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at crypto’s big brand play.
Bitcoin Underperforms S&P 500 as Stocks Have Overshot Fundamentals, Crypto Trading Firm QCP Says
Goldman Sachs to Spend 'Tens of Millions' on Discounted Crypto Investments After FTX Implosion: Report
Ledger Taps iPod Creator Tony Fadell for New Crypto Hardware Wallet
Paraguay Votes Down Crypto Regulatory Bill in a Blow to Crypto Mining Industry
ConsenSys to Update MetaMask Crypto Wallet in Response to Privacy Backlash
Alchemy Releases Web3 App Store to Streamline Dapp Access
Hoops Legend Scottie Pippen Shoots a 'Web3' With Virtual Sneakers"
492,692,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/07/crypto-exchange-binanceus-eliminates-trading-fees-for-ether/,Crypto Exchange Binance.US Eliminates Trading Fees for Ether,The exchange will also offer additional trading fee discounts to customers who pay their trading fees with BNB tokens.,2022-12-07,"Binance.US is getting rid of trading fees for ether (ETH), the company said Tuesday, expanding its zero-free program beyond just bitcoin (BTC).
Free trading will apply to the following spot market pairs: ETH/USD, ETH/USDT, ETH/USDC and ETH/BUSD. The exchange said it will also offer additional trading fee discounts to customers who pay their trading fees with BNB tokens.
Back in June the exchange, a unit of the largest crypto exchange by volume, became the first U.S. crypto exchange platform to eliminate bitcoin trading fees in an effort to attract more users. It said at the time it would do the same for more tokens in the future.
""By eliminating fees first on BTC and now ETH, we are ... raising awareness for the high fees consumers are paying on other platforms, and helping to restore trust in the greater ecosystem,” said Brian Shroder, CEO and president of Binance.US, in a press release.
In the wake of the FTX collapse and skeptical crypto market sentiments, JPMorgan said last month that centralized exchanges will continue to dominate digital-asset trading volumes.
Binance.US also announced this week its launch in two new U.S. territories – American Samoa and Guam. It also received its Money Transmitter Licenses (MTL) in Louisiana, bringing the total secured MLTs in the U.S. to 43."
493,695,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/07/crypto-markets-today-gensler-restates-secs-crypto-authority/,Crypto Markets Today: Gensler Restates SEC’s Crypto Authority,"The chairman said the agency has the basic disclosure and governance requirements to hold digital-asset firms accountable, although he did not address the fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s collapse.",2022-12-07,"U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler isn’t waiting for new powers from Congress to enforce securities laws against crypto companies, though he said Wednesday that it would be good to have more money and additional reach beyond U.S. borders.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Gensler, who declined to specifically talk about failed crypto exchange FTX and its former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, said in an interview on Yahoo! Finance that the SEC has the basic disclosure and governance requirements in place to hold digital-assets firms accountable.
The SEC chief also didn’t directly address questions about whether his agency would push out tailored crypto rules next year, but he insisted that it doesn’t need any. “The rules are there,” he said. “The law firms know how to advise their clients to comply.”
FTX’s crash showed the dangers of running a global platform without walls between customer funds and investment operations, Gensler said. Crypto firms can’t do everything. “Your field will not last long outside of public policy norms,” he said.
The court case over whether Ripple’s XRP is a security has been seen as the major lingering question holding the agency back, but Gensler said Wednesday that a federal judge’s decision last month determining that crypto startup LBRY violated securities laws by selling its native LBC tokens was a “very big win” for the SEC’s legal campaign.
So far, the SEC hasn’t directly gone after U.S. exchange Coinbase (COIN) for listing what the agency believes are securities without registering as a national securities exchange. Still, the SEC has – in another recent enforcement action – listed several tokens it considers unregistered securities that were traded on the company’s platform.
Bitcoin (BTC): The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $16,800, down about a percentage point over the past 24 hours. BTC has held comfortably above $17,000 for much of the past nine days, despite ongoing investor jitters about contagion linked to the implosion of crypto exchange FTX and macroeconomic uncertainties, particularly signs since late last week that the U.S. Federal Reserve will have to maintain its hawkish course on interest rate hikes through 2023.
SushiSwap (SUSHI): The decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol is facing a significant deficit in its treasury that threatens its long-term operational viability, according to a governance proposal from project developers. After reviewing expenditures, the project's annual runway requirement was reduced from $9 million to $5 million, but the treasury still provides for only about 18 months of runway, developers said.
Axie Infinity (AXS): The native token of the blockchain-based play-to-earn game Axie Infinity, has come out of oblivion this week with a double-digit price rally. Yet, leverage traders appear skeptical if AXS' turnaround from 17-month lows would be longlasting. That's because while open interest, or the dollar value locked in the number of active standard futures and perpetual futures contracts tied to AXS, has increased to a three-month high of $129.70 million, funding rates remain negative, according to data source Coinglass.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Absent a black swan or negative contagion event specific to a centralized entity, digital assets still seem very much connected to macroeconomic developments.
But, notably, yields for the federal funds rate, U.S. three-month and two-year Treasurys exceed the yield of 10-year Treasurys.
This condition, called an inverted yield curve, has predated past economic recessions. If viewed in isolation, an inverted yield curve does not bode well for bitcoin, or copper prices for that matter. Increased short-term rates and slower economic growth lead to lower demand and prices for physical and digital assets.
Read the full technical take here.
Coinbase Global (COIN) CEO Brian Armstong said the company’s revenue will be about half what it was last year as the crypto exchange struggles amid stark price drops in cryptocurrencies and continuing ripple effects from multiple bankruptcies this year, including the recent collapse of rival exchange FTX. Armstrong noted in an interview with Bloomberg’s David Rubenstein that Coinbase had done about $7 billion in revenue ($7.8 billion, according to FactSet) and $4 billion in positive EBITDA. “It's looking, you know, about roughly half that or less,” Armstrong said.
Genesis interim CEO Derar Islim wrote in a letter to customers Wednesday that resolution of his company’s lending unit’s withdrawal freeze is likely to be a matter of “weeks” rather than days. The lending arm of Genesis in November was forced to suspend redemptions following the collapse of crypto exchange FTX. This morning’s note from Islim said Genesis is committed to being as “transparent as possible” with customers and that it is working in consultation with highly experienced advisers and in close collaboration with its owner, Digital Currency Group. DCG is also the parent company of CoinDesk.
China removed harsh COVID-19 restrictions after weeks of protests nationwide that threatened to hobble its already struggling economy. The Chinese government had hoped its controls would zero out the infection rate, prioritizing public safety over declining productivity. But officials started to change their perspective amid mass demonstrations and growing acceptance that the latest COVID strains are less virulent.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at crypto’s big brand play.
Canada’s Largest Pension Fund Stops Exploring Crypto Investment: Reuters
'Do You Believe In Second Chances?' Another DAO Is Raising Funds to Buy a Copy of the US Constitution
US Sen. Cynthia Lummis: Ether Is Now a Security; My Bill Might Have Stopped FTX
South Korea’s Central Bank Wants to Oversee Stablecoins
Blockchain Entrepreneur Arrested in California on Fraud Charges"
494,250,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/12/07/defi-project-mercurial-plots-revamp-and-new-tokens-following-toxic-association-with-ftx/,DeFi Project Mercurial Plots Revamp and New Tokens Following 'Toxic' Association With FTX,Mercurial would launch some of its popular products as a separate project under the name Meteora.,2022-12-07,"Mercurial, a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform that allows users to lend and borrow stablecoins on the Solana blockchain, is revamping its brand, community and token distribution, as per a Wednesday post.
The revamp plan, which being called the Meteora plan, was formulated in response to recent events, including a collaboration with crypto exchange FTX and its closely related trading firm Alameda, which has left a ""toxic association"" among the three entities.
The firm set up a new token and will migrate current MER holders to the new setup. It is also setting up a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) to give the community more leverage over essential decisions. Mercurial holds over $27 million across two products, DeFiLlama data shows, and held over $200 million at lifetime peaks.
The plan will see Mercurial launch its lending vaults and automated market maker (AMM) pools as a separate project under the name Meteora. An AMM refers to decentralized exchanges that rely on smart contracts to source liquidity from users and price the assets within the pool using algorithms.
Mercurial said funds raised from the initial exchange listing (IEO) for its native MER tokens on FTX represented over 10% of the total funds raised for the project.
Alameda’s involvement in MER was in the form of 3% of liquid MER for market making that was bought at private round prices of 7 cents. An 1.5% of locked MER for seed investment was bought at a seed price of 2 cents, Mercurial said.
“In summary, the only liquid tokens in the market came from Alameda Market Making (3%), IEO/IDO participants (0.3%), private investors (1.6%) and the liquidity mining rewards for our stable pools,” the team stated. This created constant sell-side liquidity for MER tokens on the open market, which is now deemed detrimental given the troubles at Alameda and FTX.
“There still needed to be more clarity and certainty over MER’s tokenomics. The uncertainty is further exacerbated by the exploit on FTX, resulting in over [$800,000] worth of MER tokens in the hacker’s wallet,” the team added."
495,1039,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/07/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-holds-its-17k-perch-amid-rate-hike-concerns/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Holds Its $17K Perch Amid Rate Hike Concerns,"ALSO: Sam Reynolds writes that Asia is ready for a scaled up, crypto-friendly bank, particularly if the U.S. oversteps in regulating the industry following the recent FTX debacle.",2022-12-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos traded sideways, albeit slightly to the green.
Insights: Asia is ready for a scaled-up, crypto-friendly bank.
Bitcoin Watches and Waits From Its $17K Perch
By James Rubin
Bitcoin spent another day watching and waiting.
The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently trading just above $17,000, up a smidgen of a percentage point over the past 24 hours and roughly around its level of the past two weeks as investors continued to weigh economic indicators suggesting the U.S. Federal Reserve still had work to do on the inflation front. BTC has remained tethered to the $17,000 handhold it grabbed eight days ago when signs pointed to the Federal Reserve retreating from its ultra-monetary hawkishness.
But in a speech at the Brookings Institute on Dec. 1, Fed Chair Jerome Powell indicated the bank might raise interest rates higher than expected in 2023 even as it contemplated lowering its next rate hike later this month from its current fare of 75 basis points (bps) increases to 50 bps. ""The positive market response to the Powell speech suggests that macro conditions will still play a substantial part in BTC's price discovery onwards,"" Arcane Research, which provides analysis of digital asset trends, wrote in a newsletter on Tuesday.
Arcane added, however that separate from reaction to Powell's remarks, markets have stayed ""directionless ... as BTC has spent the first six days of December floating in a narrow trading range near $17,000. The market slowdown is reflected in severely reduced trading volumes in spot and derivatives markets, and the last month seems to have caused market participants to shy [away from] the crypto market.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,260, up slightly since Monday, same time. Most other major altcoins were recently in the green with AXS, the token of gaming platform Axie Infinity, rising more than 4.5% to continue a recent surge. SUSHI, the token of decentralized exchange Sushiswap, was off more than 10%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, climbed 0.33%.
In an increasingly common pattern, crypto prices veered from U.S. equity indexes, which sank amid inflationary worries and macroeconomic uncertainties that have plagued 2022. The tech-heavy Nasdaq plunged 2% and the S&P 500, with its strong technology component, tumbled 1.4%.
Arcane wrote that the crypto market's more than week-long calm has stemmed from ""a trader exodus"" following the collapse of crypto exchange giant FTX. ""The crypto market has mostly traded as one coordinated organism in the last week evident by all indexes trading in a very flat environment,"" Arcane wrote.
In an emailed market analysis, Mark Conners, head of research at digital asset manager 3iQ, noted that institutions have been ""doubling down on the promise of blockchain and digital assets, despite the FTX filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and other contagion. On Tuesday, Reuters reported that Goldman Sachs (GS), one of the world's largest investment banks, was looking to spend tens of millions of dollars on crypto firms whose valuations have been hit hard by FTX's implosion.
3iQ's Connors also highlighted Fidelity's new retail-focused digital asset offering and BlackRock CEO Larry Fink's comments on decentralized finance's potential. He also noted a Financial Times op-ed by BNY Mellon CEO Robin Vince, who called for an ""embrace digital asset innovation."" Vance also wrote that ""a comprehensive regulatory framework is needed, but much of the underpinning already exists and can be extended from the regulation of traditional assets. There is a path to be found.""
Asia Ready for a Crypto Friendly Bank
By Sam Reynolds
The short sellers are circling around Silvergate Bank, concerned about its exposure to FTX and falling digital asset prices. But while the bank’s exposure to the FTX exchange is limited, its problem is that it is wholly reliant on U.S. regulations.
While Silvergate doesn’t have any outstanding loans to FTX, the failed crypto exchange represents just 10% of the bank’s $11.9 billion in total deposits. It’s not a worst-case scenario, but the concentration of deposits is alarming to some short sellers: Coinbase, Paxos, Crypto.com and Kraken are the bank’s next largest customers.
Silvergate's smaller rival Signature seems to be cognizant of the issue, and recently announced that it intends to shrink its crypto exposure. Investors are signaling that it's as good as time as ever to reduce crypto exposure, as Silvergate's stock has underperformed bitcoin itself, and also KRE, a regional bank ETF that holds shares in many similar-sized banks.
And all of Silvergate's major customers are based in the U.S. For a bank that specializes in an asset class that is, in theory, decentralized, the bank’s book is heavily centralized around the U.S. regulatory regime.
The exact regulatory response to FTX’s collapse hasn’t been written yet. But lawmakers are eager to understand what happened, and there’s been talk of establishing significant guardrails to ensure that what occurred doesn’t happen again.
We can all agree that the FTX-Alameda structure was problematic, but lawmakers are bound to look beyond that and do what they can to heavily restrict future crypto trading in the U.S. Onshore crypto trading isn’t going to look the same in the U.S. in 2023 and beyond – and Silvergate is going to be stuck dealing with this much-more-regulated reality.
But the U.S. isn’t the only regulatory regime in town. Around Asia there are countries and territories with much more industry-friendly rulebooks that provide regulatory clarity, an absence about which many U.S. stakeholders have complained.
Sure, some such as Singapore discourage retail trading, but make up for it with a high concentration of institutions and family offices that trade. Then there’s Thailand, which bans meme coins and some non-fungible tokens (NFT), citing a lack of substance, but doesn’t discourage retail crypto trading if rules can be followed.
""...To protect consumers, we need regulatory guidance for companies that ensures trust and transparency. There's a reason why most crypto trading is offshore – companies have 0 guidance on how to comply here in the U.S.,"" Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse tweeted in mid-November.
""Compare that with Singapore, which has a licensing framework, token taxonomy laid out, and much more. They can appropriately regulate crypto b/c they've done the work to define what 'good' looks like, and know all tokens aren’t securities (despite what [SEC Chair Gary Gensler] insists),"" he added in a follow-up tweet.
If crypto gradually moves offshore because of reactionary over-regulation in the U.S., Silvergate will have no exposure to this.
Instead, crypto-friendly banks abroad, like Thailand’s SCB (which is actively investing in crypto infrastructure) or DBS will take up this niche. It’s not hard to replicate, after all: Silvergate developed its position in the market by not being outwardly crypto-hostile like other banks. There have already been a few competitors pop up, like Hong Kong’s First Digital Trust (FDT), which directly names Silvergate as a competitor.
The market is ready for this to scale, reproducing Silvergate in an environment that is more conducive to crypto trading.
12:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(4:00 UTC) Australia's Gross Domestic Product (QoQ)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) European Union Gross Domestic Product s.a. (YoY)
2:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(18:30 UTC) Bank of Canada Interest Rate Decision
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Scottie Pippen on His Big NFT Splash and Future of Sports in Crypto; Bitcoin Hovers Around $17K
NBA Hall of Famer Scottie Pippen is stepping into the metaverse with only shoes he can fill, or in this case, drop on OpenSea. Yes, we're talking about Pippen Sneaker NFTs! The legendary basketball champion joined ""First Mover"" in studio, along with Orange Comet CEO Dave Broome, to discuss the latest project. Plus, has bitcoin hit bottom? eToro Crypto consultant Glen Goodman shared his crypto markets analysis. And, Molly White discussed her mission to disclose crypto scams and hacks, which earned her a place on CoinDesk's Most Influential 2022 list.
Ledger Taps iPod Creator Tony Fadell for New Crypto Hardware Wallet: The Ledger Stax is a sleek device that features an e-ink display that can show transaction details and even NFTs on its exterior.
Sam Bankman-Fried Hires Mark Cohen as His Attorney: Reuters: The former head of the now-bankrupt crypto exchange, Bankman-Fried has yet to be charged with any crimes.
DESK Upgrade on CoinDesk’s Website Offers Tokenized Reader Experience: The social token’s expansion helps CoinDesk establish a Web3-driven feedback loop with readers.
Blockchain Data Provider Chainlink Launches Staking of Its Native Token LINK: Staking will provide incentives that will enable the Chainlink system to grow, according to co-founder Sergey Nazarov.
ConsenSys to Update MetaMask Crypto Wallet in Response to Privacy Backlash: The firm clarified its data-sharing practices and said it will rebuild MetaMask’s settings page to address user concerns."
496,495,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/07/us-sen-cynthia-lummis-ether-is-now-a-security-my-bill-might-have-stopped-ftx/,US Sen. Cynthia Lummis: Ether Is Now a Security; My Bill Might Have Stopped FTX,The Wyoming Republican says the second-largest cryptocurrency was transformed by the Ethereum Merge.,2022-12-07,"CORRECTION (Dec. 7, 2022, 18:52 UTC): Corrects headline to say that Lummis views ether as a security.
The U.S. senator behind one of the more important pieces of bipartisan crypto legislation in the works said bitcoin is the only cryptocurrency that can be considered a commodity because ether is now a security thanks to September's Ethereum Merge.
“It’s starting to look more like bitcoin is the only thing that would qualify as a commodity,” said Sen. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), a longtime bitcoin holder and advocate. She told CoinDesk TV’s “All About Bitcoin” program on Tuesday that ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, could be deemed a security.
“It’s a security because of the way [it] moved from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake,” Lummis said about the blockchain’s upgrade earlier this year. The “inability to [unstake tokens] right now makes it susceptible to being [considered] a security.”
Read more: US Sen. Gillibrand Says a Last-Ditch Stablecoin Bill May Still Emerge This Year
That could change, of course, she added. It is possible ether will become “sufficiently decentralized that it could later be deemed a commodity.”
A member of the Senate Banking Committee, Lummis, with Sen. Kirsten Gillbrand (D-N.Y.), is a sponsor of the Responsible Financial Innovation Act, which was introduced in June. If passed the bill would give the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) the main power to set regulatory standards for crypto. Lummis told CDTV that among the goals of the bill is clearly defining what can be deemed a security or a commodity.
Had the bill already been law, Lummis said, the collapse of crypto exchange FTX might've been avoided.
“The type of rehypothecation that was going on with FTX and some of the other attributes of FTX which caused it to fail would have been prevented had the Lummis-Gillibrand bill been in effect,” Lummis said.
Lummis said the fall of FTX has only underscored a “more emphatic enthusiasm” to reintroduce the Lummis-Gillibrand legislation in the new Congress next month, and to set clear regulatory standards that will help consumers who take part in the digital asset industry.
Read more: Key US Senators Introduce Crypto Bill Outlining Sweeping Plan for Future Rules"
497,635,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/07/gensler-says-us-sec-is-fine-going-after-crypto-with-its-current-authorities/,Gensler Says SEC Is Fine Going After Crypto With Its Current Authority,"As a new Congress prepares to work on uncertain crypto legislation next year, the SEC chairman says his agency needs nothing apart from more money and more reach overseas.",2022-12-07,"U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler isn’t waiting for new powers from Congress to enforce securities laws against crypto companies, though he said Wednesday it would be good to have more money and additional reach beyond U.S. borders.
Gensler, who declined to specifically talk about failed crypto exchange FTX and its former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, said in an interview on Yahoo Finance that the SEC has the basic disclosure and governance requirements in place to hold digital-assets firms accountable. The SEC chief also didn’t directly address questions about whether his agency would push out tailored crypto rules next year, but he insisted that it doesn’t need any.
“The rules are there,” he said. “The law firms know how to advise their clients to comply.”
As the fiery crash of FTX taught harsh lessons about the dangers of running a global platform without walls between customer funds and investment operations, Gensler underlined that crypto firms can’t do everything.
“Your field will not last long outside of public policy norms,” he said. “Some of these platforms have come in and said, ‘We want to continue running a commingled platform. We want to continue doing lending, trading, hedge fund functions, an exchange function, a custody function.’ We said, ‘No, you have to separate it out.’”
Gensler has expanded his crypto-enforcement team, though the agency hasn’t yet dropped a bomb on a major cryptocurrency platform. The court case over whether Ripple’s XRP is a security – and within reach of SEC authority – has been seen as the major lingering question holding the agency back. However, Gensler said Wednesday that a federal judge’s decision last month determining crypto startup LBRY violated securities laws by selling its native LBC tokens was a “very big win” for the SEC’s legal campaign.
So far, the SEC hasn’t directly gone after U.S. exchange Coinbase (COIN) for listing what the agency believes are securities without registering as a national securities exchange. Still, the SEC has – in another recent enforcement action – listed several tokens it considered unregistered securities that were traded on the company’s platform.
""If the SEC has the authority Mr. Gensler claims, why did he fail to uncover the largest crypto Ponzi scheme in US history?"" Rep. Ritchie Torres (D-N.Y.), said in a letter this week to the Government Accountability Office requesting a review of the SEC's role with FTX. ""One cannot have it both ways, asserting authority while avoiding accountability.""
However, Torres, a member of the House Financial Services Committee who is on the Congressional Blockchain Caucus, was also among lawmakers who sent a letter to Gensler earlier this year expressing concerns about how SEC investigators were gathering information from crypto companies.
Whether the SEC wants new laws or not, Congress has made crypto a new priority this year, and lawmakers from both parties are expected to push for the first major crypto legislation in the next session. Most of the preliminary efforts have sought to raise the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission into a prominent role in the oversight of crypto trading.
Gensler’s agency doesn’t need new crypto rules, he argued, adding that what would really help would be more resources and more powers over activity happening in other jurisdictions. The SEC already regulates $100 trillion markets – mainly in stocks, bonds and government securities – and no matter how much attention crypto is getting, he said Wednesday, it’s a relatively small market.
“Worldwide, it’s about $800-ish billion,” he said. “We don’t know the exact number in the U.S., but far smaller than the $800 billion.”
UPDATE (Dec. 7, 2022, 20:43 UTC): Adds letter from Rep. Torres on Gensler's performance regarding FTX"
498,190,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/07/first-mover-asia-heres-what-might-happen-to-sino-globals-liquid-value-fund-during-ftxs-bankruptcy-protection-proceedings/,First Mover Asia: Here’s What Might Happen to Sino Global’s Liquid Value Fund During FTX’s Bankruptcy Protection Proceedings,Crypto Twitter wanted to know the potential consequences of having Alameda and Sam Bankman-Fried as partners in a fund. So we asked a Hong Kong-based lawyer who specializes in asset tracing and recovery; bitcoin dips but not much.,2022-12-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos sink some, but not enough to disturb the calm of the past 10 days.
Insights: How will the fallout from FTX affect Sino Global's Liquid Value Fund?
Bitcoin Dips, Albeit Not by Much
By James Rubin
In soccer World Cup terms, bitcoin's performance the past 10 days would be the equivalent of a 0-0 draw.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization isn't losing or gaining much ground. On Wednesday, BTC was recently trading at about $16,850. That was down more than 1% over the past 24 hours but didn't offer much variance from its perch since late November when bitcoin established support above $17,000.
In an interview with CoinDesk's ""First Mover"" TV program, Joe Orsini, vice president of research at digital asset management platform Eaglebrook Advisors, attributed bitcoin's toughness to an at least temporary slowdown in bad news stemming from the collapse of crypto exchange giant FTX and other crypto fiascos this year.
""When it comes to the unexpected, no news is good news,"" Orsini said. ""We've had a few things play out since the FTX news, of course, the BlockFi bankruptcy that was relatively priced in knowing they kind of relied on that FTX-Alameda bailout, as well as now you have concerns with some of the lenders. But it's been slow to play out, and there hasn't been that second wave of shock.""
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,230, off 2.8% from Tuesday, same time. Other major cryptos spent much of the day in the red, albeit not by much, as investors continued to gnaw on recent economic indicators suggesting the U.S. Federal Reserve's hawkish monetary policy had not taken as big a bite out of inflation as was hoped. SUSHI, the token of the decentralized exchange SushiSwap was recently off more than 8%, while popular meme coin DOGE fell more than 3.5%.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, tumbled 1.59%.
Cryptos roughly tracked U.S. equity markets, which were most down, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 dropping 0.5% and 0.1%, respectively, amid inflationary fears, although stocks performance improved over the steeper drops of the previous two days. Markets received an extra whiff of encouragement on Wednesday when China announced it was dropping its harshest Covid restrictions. China's measures to limit mortalities from the disease have been slowing the economic growth of the world's second largest economy by GDP.
Eaglebrook Advisors' Orsini said that additional contagion could unsettle markets. ""The important thing to consider is if the news does come, and if there is real contagion, does it lead to forced selling or liquidations or stronger selling pressure?"" he asked, although he remained upbeat about a crypto rebound.
""Price does have a knack for changing sentiment,"" he said. ""When things are on sale, people want them less. We believe in the long run that these event-driven declines have very little meaning to underlying technology. Bitcoin has specific characteristics that it a really attractive form of money, and potentially to take market share away from fiat. And with Etherium, the ability to automate transactions, and the quality of entrepreneurs entering the ecosystem is not changing.""
Orsini added: ""Cycles happen, and so we've been in a bear market for about 13 months, and those (bear markets) were where the opportunities lie for long-term investors.""
How will FTX Contagion Affect Sino Global Capital?
By Sam Reynolds
Connections between Sino Global Capital’s Liquid Value Fund, its first fund for outside investment, and Sam Bankman-Fried as well as Alameda Research, might mean the venture capital fund is mentioned in FTX’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection proceedings, according to a Hong Kong lawyer who specializes in asset tracing.
According to Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Sino Global’s Liquid Value counts Sam Bankman-Fried and Alameda as general partners and co-owners of the fund.
In a prior comment to The Block, Matthew Graham, Sino Global’s founder, who has been historically closely aligned with SBF and FTX, said that a “substantial” portion of the Liquid Value fund’s $200 million had been committed by FTX and other partners.
According to a recent report by the Financial Times, which detailed all of Alameda’s investments, the Bankman-Fried-affiliated fund put $60 million into Sino Global’s Liquid Value Fund. An unknown amount was then contributed by SBF himself.
These events will complicate FTX and Alameda’s process in their bankruptcy hearings, says Stephen Chan, a partner at Hong Kong-based law firm Ince.
“If they are in a partnership, all partners share in the upside and the downside,” Chan said in an interview with CoinDesk. “The other partners may incur liability for the actions of SBF and Alameda.”
A material amount of Alameda’s balance sheet was made up of FTX’s FTT token, as CoinDesk previously reported, which it used for collateral on investments. If Alameda funded part, or all, of its contribution to Sino Global’s Liquid Value fund via FTT, then this pool of assets – and whatever they were invested in – would be a part of what’s available to creditors.
If it turns out that SBF and his cohorts were committing fraud and some of SBF’s partners were in knowing receipt of proceeds of fraud, Chan explained, there would be a slightly different route under Hong Kong common law (the fund is domiciled there, and FTX/Alameda had a significant presence in the territory).
“If SBF is a general partner, then the partnership may have liability,” Chan said.
In instances of fraud, liquidators working on the FTX-Alameda case may look to recipients of proceeds of fraud to see whether civil recovery is possible.
But all of this might be challenging, to say the least. Sino Global is heavily invested in Solana and its respective infrastructure.
CoinGecko data shows that Solana has suffered a 93% loss during the last year, and in the weeks following FTX’s collapse nearly $700 million in locked-in value has been wiped out from Solana decentralized finance protocols.
The token of Orca, a Solana-based decentralized exchange that is one of Sino Global’s leading portfolio companies, reached a high of $20 in October 2021; it is now worth just over 40 cents. Its total value locked went from $1.4 billion at its height to $43.15 million today, according to DeFiLlama.
FTX’s FTT token is currently trading at $1.51, up 14% during the last two weeks, but down 95% on the month. Recently, its contract deployer has dumped the entirety of the locked FTT tokens into circulation, effectively flooding the market with what is already a token of questionable value.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(00:30 UTC) Australia Trade Balance (MoM/Oct)
8:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:00 UTC) European Central Bank's President Christine Lagarde Speech
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) Initial Jobless Claims
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Dips Under $17K; Sam Bankman-Fried Hires Attorney Mark Cohen: Report
Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried has hired high-profile defense attorney Mark Cohen, the same attorney who represented Ghislaine Maxwell in her sex-trafficking trial, according to Reuters. Plus, what's moving bitcoin (BTC) and other crypto markets? Joe Orsini of Eaglebrook Advisors shared his analysis. Art Blocks CEO Erick Calderon also joined the conversation. See for yourself why he is one of CoinDesk's Most Influential 2022.
Be Patient, Sam Bankman-Fried Could Go to Prison for a Very, Very Long Time: The former wonder boy could be behind bars for life, according to U.S. federal sentencing guidelines.
Binance Generates 90% of Revenue From Transaction Fees, Changpeng Zhao Says: Reinstating ads on CoinMarketCap would add $40 million a year.
Genesis Client Letter Suggests No Imminent Solution to Withdrawal Freeze: The institutional crypto brokerage has been in talks with creditors and potential investors since the collapse of exchange FTX.
US Sen. Cynthia Lummis, Ether Is Now a Security; My Bill Might Have Stopped FTX: The Wyoming Republican says the second-largest cryptocurrency was transformed by the Ethereum Merge.
Bitcoin’s High Correlation to Copper Does Not Bode Well for Short-Term Investors: Bitcoin now more tightly aligns with the commodity than the S&P 500 or Nasdaq. For long-term accumulators, however, this is likely their season."
499,1042,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/07/the-uk-payment-systems-regulator-is-firming-up-its-approach-to-regulating-crypto/,UK Regulator Is Firming Up Its Approach to Crypto Oversight,"The Payment Systems Regulator will be looking at what happens if a crypto payment system goes wrong, PSR's Nick Davey told CoinDesk in an interview.",2022-12-07,"The U.K.’s Payments Systems Regulator is exploring how it can regulate the crypto sector, starting by looking at distributed ledger technology, said Nick Davey, a payment specialist at the agency.
The PSR, a fairly new regulator that became fully operational in 2015, would be authorized to regulate cryptocurrencies that are used for making payments if a proposed crypto-regulation bill called the Financial Services and Markets Bill becomes law. The bill is now being considered by Parliament.
“While we don’t expect to see digital currencies replacing traditional currencies in the immediate future, it’s important that innovation and competition in payments are balanced with strong safeguards to make sure people are protected when paying for things,” Davey, who advises the PSR, said.
Read more: UK Crypto Industry Welcomes New Stablecoin Rules, Awaits Guidance
The regulator, however, has already gotten a head start in regulating the sector. The Treasury put Fnality International, a still-being-tested payment system using distributed ledger technology, under its supervision. This would be the first wholesale payment system using central bank money with a decentralized network running 24/7, Davey said. The company already has 17 major institutions as shareholders, and it will be working with some of them.
Though Fnality isn't classified as a cryptocurrency because it doesn't have a token or coin – the ledger would instead represent holdings of central bank money – the PSR can still use the ledger to help it work out how it should approach regulating crypto, Davey said.
“The use of DLT in Fnality helps us to examine how our regulation may have to change because of the technology involved, and the emphasis on the distributed nature of products and services,” Davey said.
Before the project goes live, the PSR will be looking at how people can access the payment system, what products and services it will offer and what measures it has to prevent fraud, Davey said.
Davey said working with Fnality before it is fully operational has been “helpful.”
The PSR is also keeping an eye on bankrupt FTX exchange to “assess what wider implications there are on the crypto sector,” Davey said."
500,463,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/07/rally-in-crypto-game-axies-axs-token-faces-skepticism-from-derivative-traders/,Rally in Crypto Game Axie's AXS Token Faces Skepticism From Derivative Traders,"With a favorable environment for alternative cryptocurrencies far away, a rise in open interest in AXS futures implies traders shorting the rally, one trader said.",2022-12-07,"AXS, the native token of the blockchain-based play-to-earn game Axie Infinity, has come out of oblivion this week with a double-digit price rally.
Leverage traders appear skeptical if AXS' turnaround from 17-month lows would be long-lasting.
That's because while open interest, or the dollar value locked in the number of active standard futures and perpetual futures contracts tied to AXS, has increased to a three-month high of $129.70 million, funding rates remain negative, according to data source Coinglass.
Funding rates are the cost of holding bullish long and bearish short positions in the perpetual futures market. The negative rate indicates shorts are paying longs to keep their positions open, and the leverage is skewed to the bearish.
The combination of rising open interest and negative funding rates suggests an influx of new money on the bearish side, a sign of traders shorting the rally.
""With a favorable environment for alternative cryptocurrencies far away, a rise in open interest implies a higher probability of increased shorts,"" Griffin Ardern, volatility trader from crypto asset management firm Blofin, said.
""The continued nearly zero or negative funding fees indicate that traders have not yet shifted from their bearish sentiment,"" Ardern added.
AXS jumped to a three-week high of $10.40 on Monday after Axie Infinity announced plans for progressive decentralization of the game.
The decentralized strategy would focus on building an end-state where community members with meaningful contributions would play a pivotal role in decision-making progress, Axie Infinity said in the publication titled “Axie Contributor Initiative Kickoff.""
""The AXS bounce is a typical event-driven move,"" Ardern noted, referring to Axie's announcement of the community decentralization plan.
At press time, the token changed hands at $8.40, representing a nearly 22% weekly gain.
The persistent bearish sentiment in the futures market can be attributed to the lingering FTX contagion fears and macroeconomic uncertainty that has weighed heavily over crypto prices this year.
That said, a continued rise in AXS might compel traders to reassess their commitment to the bearish trade, paving the way for a short squeeze – an extended rally fueled by the unwinding of shorts, the likes of which we have recently seen in U.S. stocks.
""Considering the current low liquidity in alternative cryptocurrencies, a short squeeze cannot be ruled out,"" Ardern quipped."
501,798,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/08/crypto-markets-today-record-grayscale-bitcoin-trust-discount-widens-industry-woes/,Crypto Markets Today: Record Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Discount Widens Industry Woes,The fallout from crypto exchange FTX’s implosion continued as data showed the GBTC discount rate to bitcoin hitting a record high.,2022-12-08,"Shares of the world’s largest bitcoin fund, Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), hit a record-high discount rate of nearly 50% relative to the price of bitcoin (BTC) on Thursday.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
GBTC is a way for investors to gain exposure to bitcoin through a traditional investment vehicle. GBTC was trading at a discount rate of 47.3%, according to data from crypto index provider TradeBlock.
“The fact that Grayscale’s Bitcoin Trust is now trading at nearly 50% discount is just awful for holders of GBTC. It really highlights the vast differences in structure quality between different investment vehicles,” Bradley Duke, co-CEO at ETC Group, said in a note to CoinDesk.
Bearish sentiment surrounding the trust deepened over the last few weeks as fears surfaced that crypto trading firm Genesis Global Trading, which is owned by Grayscale’s parent company, Digital Currency Group (DCG), could file for bankruptcy. DCG is also CoinDesk's parent company.
Following the collapse of crypto exchange FTX, Genesis Global Trading announced on Nov. 16 that it would halt customer withdrawals from its lending unit, Genesis Global Capital. Amid speculation about a possible filing, Genesis said in a note to clients on Wednesday that a resolution of the lending unit’s withdrawal freeze is likely to be a matter of “weeks” rather than days.
GBTC shares haven't traded at a premium to bitcoin since March 2021. Prior to that date, the trust benefited from strong institutional demand and traded at a double-digit premium to its net asset value.
Bitcoin (BTC): The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading around $17,200, up 2.2% in the past 24 hours. BTC was hovering below the $17,000 mark earlier in the day but then jumped around 1:20 p.m. ET to trade as high as $17,293. Equity markets also turned green, with the S&P 500 index closing up 0.75%.
Ether (ETH): The second-largest cryptocurrency in market value also turned green, recently jumping 3.8%. The rally came after Ethereum developers determined the network’s next hard fork, called “Shanghai,” will have a target release time frame of March 2023. This upgrade will include code known as EIP 4895 that will allow Beacon Chain staked ETH withdrawals. Ether fell 17% last month, breaching an ascending trendline connecting June and October lows.
Wave (WAVES): The native token of the Waves blockchain was trading down 8.8% to $2.10 after South Korea-based exchange Upbit warned its users against investing in WAVES. WAVES is a digital asset used as collateral for USDN, a stablecoin aiming to peg its value to 1 USD with an algorithm. Currently, the value of USDN is not properly linked to $1 dollar, according to Upbit.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
The three-month rolling, annualized basis for BTC remains below zero, reducing the incentive for traders to place market neutral carry trades.
When the basis is positive, traders are inclined to simultaneously buy bitcoin in spot markets and sell BTC in futures markets, pocketing the difference in yields. The same holds true for ether (ETH), whose three-month basis has been below zero since Nov 12. Bitcoin’s chart highlights recent price inelasticity. Since Dec. 1, prices have moved a total of .001%.
Ultimately, this market favors investors with long-time horizons and significant comfort in BTC’s valuation. Friday’s Commitment of Traders (COT) report will provide insight into the degree to which institutional comfort may be shifting.
Read the full technical take here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at why crypto lenders keep falling into bankruptcy.
Centralized Crypto Exchange Bybit Integrates Decentralized Exchange ApeX Pro Onto Platform
Crypto Options Exchange Deribit Registered Record Trading Volume in November
Hedge Fund Presidio Trading to Spin Out Crypto Market Tail Risk Strategy
US Watchdog Says Banks Shying Away From Stumbling Crypto Industry
PayPal Expands Crypto Service Into Luxembourg in First EU Foray
South Korean Court Denies Injunction Against Crypto Exchanges for Delisting Metaverse Token Wemix: Report
Kim Kardashian Wins Investor Lawsuit Over EthereumMax"
502,193,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/08/crypto-options-exchange-deribit-registers-record-ether-trading-volume-in-november/,Crypto Options Exchange Deribit Registered Record Trading Volume in November,Deribit was busier than ever as FTX-induced uncertainty boosted demand for options or hedging instruments.,2022-12-08,"Deribit, the world's largest crypto options exchange by volume and open interest, has been busier than ever.
The number of ether (ETH) options contracts traded rose 10% in November relative to October, reaching a record high of 8.9 million. Trading volume in bitcoin (BTC) options rose 17% to 778,000 contracts, nearing the record rally registered in January 2021, according to data sourced from Deribit.
In nominal terms, the total options turnover rose 5% to $25.5 billion, with the exchange accounting for over 90% of the global trading volume. On Deribit, one ether and one bitcoin option contract represent 1 ETH and 1 BTC, respectively.
Volumes rose as Sam Bankman-Fried's exchange FTX, formerly the third-largest crypto spot and futures platform worldwide by volume, filed for bankruptcy protection, raising fears of widespread contagion.
""Market volatility and overall fear and unrest have resulting in trading opportunities (up 20% in overall volumes or + USD 8 billion) but perhaps more importantly clients were able to hedge existing portfolios,"" Deribit said in its monthly newsletter.
""Deribit has seen new record volumes in our options settlement as 778,000 BTC and 8.9 million ETH options contracts were traded in November,"" Deribit added.
Options are derivative contracts that offer the purchaser the right to buy or sell the underlying asset at a predetermined price on or before a specific date. A call option gives the right to buy and is akin to purchasing insurance against price rallies. The put option is a bearish bet offering the purchaser the right to sell.
Therefore, the demand for options is closely tied to the degree of uncertainty in the market. The higher the uncertainty, the greater the demand and activity in options.
That's what happened last month as traders snapped up protective puts in bitcoin, ether and Solana's SOL token in the wake of the negative news flow related to FTT.
""Options are great tools for risk management. They enable the ability to focus on more nuanced outcomes,"" Richard Rosenblum, co-founder of crypto trading firm and liquidity provider GSR, tweeted, referring to the increase in activity on Deribit."
503,189,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/08/2022-crypto-markets-a-year-in-review/,2022 – Crypto Markets: A Year in Review,"Coming off euphoric highs of the year before, the crypto market has endured an environment of tightening monetary policy, which led to sell-offs, implosions of projects like Terra, bankruptcy filings of CeFi companies including Celsius Network and Voyager Digital and the climactic downfall of the FTX exchange.",2022-12-08,"It’s no secret that 2022 has been a difficult year for global markets.
The U.S. stock market has fallen over 15% in value, bond markets have fallen over 20% and crypto markets have fallen over 50% from their peak in 2021.
Early in 2022, central banks around the world began to raise interest rates in order to slow inflation and decrease the rate of economic expansion. The tightening of monetary and fiscal policies has dramatically decreased investors’ appetite for risk and speculative investment strategies. Many investors have opted to sell or exit speculative asset classes altogether. This macroeconomic pressure has affected traditional asset classes and has put tremendous pressure on emerging asset classes including cryptocurrency.
The economic situation leading into 2022 allowed crypto to shine. Record low interest rates, an expanding money supply and a strong economy all set the stage for record growth, both in price and adoption, in the crypto economy.
You're reading Crypto for Advisors, a weekly look at digital assets and the future of finance for financial advisors. Subscribe here to receive the mailing every Thursday.
Investor interest in crypto was evident as bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) both reached all-time highs, decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols grew to record size, the crypto market cap topped $3 trillion, the non-fungible token (NFT) market grew exponentially and venture capital firms invested in many crypto businesses.
Centralized finance (CeFi) exchanges saw incredible growth as their services offered attractive yields to investors who were not able to find appealing yields in the traditional financial markets. New crypto projects garnered incredible attention and growth, including the Terra ecosystem, headlined by the algorithmic stable coin UST and sister cryptocurrency LUNA.
Investor appetite for risk and speculative asset investments was driven by economic policy that many people believed would continue for years to come. Traders, institutional investors and speculators entered leveraged positions, borrowing money at low rates, which added to the frenzy witnessed in the crypto markets.
Watch: DeFi vs CeFi: The Search for Yield
As central banks reversed course, began to decrease market liquidity and raise interest rates, these speculative asset classes started to slow. Because of the increase in interest rates, investors saw opportunities to hold lower-risk investments and earn an attractive yield. As the prices of risk assets began to decrease, the crypto market began to sell off. By the end of the second quarter of 2022, the crypto market cap had fallen over $1 trillion. This severe sell-off was accelerated as leveraged positions began to unwind.
New and exciting projects like Terra, began to implode as traders exited the crypto markets. The UST stablecoin de-pegged from the U.S. dollar. Investors lost billions of dollars in the UST blow-up, and the overall market went under even more pressure.
CeFi intuitions were overleveraged, having lent significant funds to hedge funds such as Three Arrows Capital, which lost a tremendous amount of capital in the sell-off that followed the Terra failure. Three Arrows Capital, along with many other leveraged hedge funds, defaulted on loans owed to many CeFi companies and these CeFi companies were forced to file for bankruptcy protection. User funds held on CeFi platforms were frozen and retail investors were not able to remove their funds. Companies such as Celsius Network and Voyager Digital, which promised attractive yields to users, failed and users lost their funds.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
By the end of the summer, crypto markets were showing signs of stabilizing. The leverage in the ecosystem had apparently been purged from the markets and investor confidence began to return to crypto. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) rose to a summer high level of $1,092 on Sept. 12. Confidence was returning to the markets, driven by FTX, a large exchange and custodian, which had stepped in to rescue large CeFi lender BlockFi from bankruptcy. The seemingly strong FTX, led by founder Sam Bankman-Fried, continued to invest in crypto companies, bailed out many distressed startups and was seen as the strongest company in crypto.
Confidence in crypto markets continued into the late fall of 2022, until shocking revelations around FTX and sister company Alameda Research came to light in a November CoinDesk article. Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao immediately and publicly expressed concerns around FTX's solvency and ability to sustain its self-issued token, FTT. Traders began to withdraw funds from FTX. The FTT price fell from roughly $26 to $1 in just a few days and FTX paused customer withdrawals.
The previously healthy company was discovered to be insolvent, having commingled customer deposits and funds. FTX filed for bankruptcy protection in late November. The previous bailout of BlockFi was reversed and BlockFi was back into bankruptcy court. Crypto markets crashed. The CoinDesk Market Index plummeted to a low of $795 as investors continued their exodus from crypto markets.
Read more: The Epic Collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX Exchange: A Crypto Markets Timeline
It is important to note that none of the failures we’ve seen this year have been caused by a failure of the underlying blockchain technology. In fact, technical development has continued in the space, and this year has been a monumental time in the history of many blockchains. Ethereum underwent a successful upgrade in 2022, transitioning from a proof-of-work blockchain to a proof-of-stake blockchain. The tokenomics of Ethereum have also changed significantly, which many people believe will benefit the future of the Ethereum ecosystem.
The failures and bankruptcies seen in 2022 have led many people to call for further regulation in crypto. Fraud, theft, along with irresponsible lending and leveraged trading have created a difficult environment for investors, which many believe would not have been possible with proper government oversight and regulation.
As we move into 2023, investors should be aware that the current macro environment, lack of regulation and confidence in crypto, and unclear regulatory frameworks will continue to put pressure on crypto. While these issues are significant and will not be easy to overcome, blockchain innovation and progress is continuing to grow and the use cases for the technology are continuing to be adopted. It is important for all investors to review their crypto portfolios, their investment thesis behind crypto allocations, and set a plan for proper crypto investment moving forward."
504,275,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/09/ai-related-tokens-surge-as-maple-ren-fall-coindesk-market-index-week-in-review/,"AI-Related Tokens Surge as Maple, Ren Fall: CoinDesk Market Index Week in Review","AI platform Fetch.ai’s native token FET surged 80% in the past five days, according to data from CoinDesk Market Index.",2022-12-09,"Fetch.ai (FET), a blockchain-based project focused on artificial intelligence (AI), was the top performer this week among the 167 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI).
The FET token’s price has jumped from 6 cents at the start of the week to now 11 cents, surging 80% in the five days since Sunday and 30% in the past 24 hours alone.
The price jump came after the release of an upgrade to the Fetch.ai wallet with features including “more easy-to-use messaging,” “fewer server interactions” and “faster load times.”
Numerai, a blockchain-based software that provides stock market forecasts and makes investments based on AI and machine learning, also saw its native token NMR’s price leaping from $11.6 to now $15.8, up nearly 40% in the past five days.
Cartesi (CTSI) and Adventure Gold (AGLD) both surged roughly 20% this week, respectively.
Losers included blockchain-based lending platform Maple Finance’s MPL token, which fell over 35% in the past five days as crypto firm Orthogonal Trading reportedly defaulted on loans on Maple Finance. MPL was recently trading at $4.50, up 2% in the past 24 hours.
Bridging platform Ren protocol’s REN token was trading down 15% in the past five days. Following the FTX exchange’s collapse and the following hack, the exploiter exchanged millions of dollars worth of ether to ren bitcoin (renBTC), a token that represents bitcoin on other blockchains, in late November.
Ribbon Finance’s RBN token and SushiSwap’s SUSHI token were also down double-digits this week.
Looking at sector performance, the CMI digitization sector was down over 5% this week, while the computing sector was down nearly 2%. The smart contract platform sector gained roughly 2%."
505,17,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/09/battered-ftx-token-surges-47-as-sam-bankman-fried-supports-exchange-revival-plan/,FTX Revival Proposal Supported by Sam Bankman-Fried Lifts FTT Token,"The crypto exchange's founder tweeted his support for influencer Ran Neuner's revival idea, sending the battered tokens as much as 47% higher.",2022-12-09,"FTT, the native cryptocurrency of the failed FTX crypto exchange, surged Friday after the platform's founder, Sam Bankman-Fried, came out in support of an exchange revival plan proposed by a crypto influencer Ran Neuner.
""I continue to think that this would be a productive path for parties to explore! I *hope* that the teams in place will do so,"" Bankman-Fried tweeted in response to Neuner's proposal to restart FTX by issuing a new FTT token and giving it to creditors and depositors.
Neuner, the host of CNBC's ""Crypto Trader"" show that launched in 2020, recommended distributing 100% of profits to token holders, adding that the idea would reestablish FTX as a dominant player and make users whole.
""Neuner's proposal is equivalent to a debt restructuring plan,"" said Griffin Ardern, a volatility trader from crypto asset management firm Blofin. ""Sam's support for the same seems to have revived hope among investors that they would get their funds back.""
The FTT token surged as much as 47% to $1.97, the highest since Nov. 16, after Bankman-Fried's tweet at 08:18 UTC, TradingView data show.
Not everyone is positive on this move.
“I think this is like a perfect… second-leg-of-the-scam strategy,” said Markus Thielen, head of research at crypto lender Matrixport, on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program Friday.
Thielen likened the issuance of new FTX tokens to the history of BTC-e, the Russian crypto exchange that closed down in 2017 after its founder was arrested for laundering a total of $4 billion. The exchange was later reborn as WEX with the promise of returning BTC-e account holders’ money. However, WEX, too, was shuttered a year later, with some $450 million said to be stolen.
For Thielen, FTX’s revival is a tall order.
“The brand is just extremely tainted,” he said, adding that exchanges tend to have a “shelf life” of a couple of years. “Investors have really shown that once they have been really scammed out of a project or protocol, that they just move on to the next one.”
FTX's troubles began early last month after a CoinDesk story showed sister concern Alameda Research holding large amounts of the illiquid FTT tokens, a sign of the unusually close relationship between the two entities.
In response, leading cryptocurrency exchange Binance announced the sale of its FTT token holdings, triggering a bank run-like situation at FTX and forcing it to halt customer withdrawals. On Nov. 11, FTX filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protections.
FTT crashed 94% to $1.31 in November, destroying billions of dollars in investor wealth.
FTX's failure, described by many as crypto's Lehman moment, has brought down several industry heavyweights, including lender BlockFi.
Update [Dec. 9, 2022 17:12 UTC]: Added comments from Markus Thielen of Matrixport."
506,67,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/09/crypto-markets-today-exposed-alameda-research-loans-to-media-site-the-block-and-its-ceo-adds-to-ftxs-miseries/,Crypto Markets Today: Exposed Alameda Research Loans to Media Site The Block and Its CEO Adds to FTX’s Miseries,The Block confirmed Friday it had received funding from Sam Bankman-Fried’s trading arm for two years.,2022-12-09,"Crypto media site The Block was secretly funded over the last two years by Sam Bankman-Fried’s Alameda Research, according to a report by Axios. The Block confirmed the report on Friday.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The Block’s CEO, Michael McCaffrey, immediately resigned after the loans came to light. He will also step down from The Block's board.
No one at the company had any knowledge of the loans except for McCaffrey, according to the company.
McCaffrey received three loans for a total of $43 million from 2021 through this year, The Block confirmed.
Bobby Moran, The Block’s chief revenue officer, will be stepping into the role of CEO effective immediately, according to the report.
“From our own experience, we have seen no evidence that Mike ever sought to improperly influence the newsroom or research teams, particularly in their coverage of SBF, FTX and Alameda Research,” Moran said in a statement.
Frank Chaparro, an editor-at-large at The Block, said in a tweet that he was ""gutted by this news,” which was briefed to the company Friday afternoon, adding that McCaffrey ""kept every single one of us in the dark.""
The Block is a competitor to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin (BTC) and Ether (ETH): BTC, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was trading around $17,140, roughly flat over the past 24 hours. BTC has been hovering at the $17,000 mark for 10 consecutive days. Ether followed a similar pattern, sliding 0.8% to $1,260 as of publication time.
Fetch.ai (FET): The blockchain-based project focused on artificial intelligence (AI) was the top performer this week among the 167 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI). Its native token FET’s price jumped from 6 cents at the start of the week to now 11 cents, surging 80% in the five days since Sunday and 36% in the past 24 hours alone at the time of publication. The price jump came after the release of an upgrade to the Fetch.ai wallet with features, including “more easy-to-use messaging,” “fewer server interactions” and “faster load times.”
FTX Token (FTT): The native cryptocurrency of the failed FTX crypto exchange surged Friday after the platform's founder, Sam Bankman-Fried, came out in support of an exchange revival plan proposed by a crypto influencer Ran Neuner. The FTT token surged as much as 47% to $1.97, its highest level since Nov. 16, after Bankman-Fried's tweet at 08:18 UTC, TradingView data show. The token has since settled back to $1.64.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Both bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) were essentially flat over the last week, with the two largest cryptocurrencies by market value trading .005% and .006% higher than the last recorded price on Dec. 2. Volume for both has been stable, with trading activity falling slightly below their respective 20-day moving averages.
BTC appears to be bumping up against potential resistance at current levels. A look at the asset’s Volume Profile Visible Range (VPVR) indicator indicates high levels of price agreement at current levels, which can lead to static price movement. If BTC breaks above this level, the next high volume node appears at the $20,000 level.
ETH’s price, since hitting a short-term bottom on Nov. 22, is showing the early makings of a potential uptrend, with prices up 12% since that day. A distinction between ETH and BTC’s recent price action is that ETH has pushed past a high volume node at $1,200 with the next stop above being at $1,340.
Read the full technical take here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at Sam Bankman-Fried’s media tour before his appearance before a congressional committee.
Grayscale, in the Spotlight as GBTC Discount Widens, Says DeFi Fund Now Trading
Sam Bankman-Fried, CZ Battle It Out on Twitter Over Binance's Exit from FTX
Crypto.com Releases Proof-of-Reserves Data Showing Client Assets Are Fully Backed
Sam Bankman-Fried Agrees to Testify Before US House Financial Committee
FalconX Discloses Assets Locked on FTX
Bitcoin's Lightning Network Could Be Getting a Privacy Upgrade
Crypto Exchange Coinbase Asks Users to Switch USDT for USDC
Uniswap Foundation Proposes Changes to Crypto DEX's Governance, Voting Processes"
507,908,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/11/first-mover-asia-uniswap-fee-switch-proposal-for-popular-ether-pools-stirs-up-community-debate/,First Mover Asia: Uniswap ‘Fee Switch’ Proposal for Popular Ether Pools Stirs Up Community Debate,"Some see the proposed pilot project as an “important step,” while others say it may lead to reduced trading activity; bitcoin holds steady over $17K as latest inflation data and FOMC meeting approach.",2022-12-11,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin was trading steady over $17K as investors awaited the latest Consumer Price Index report and U.S. central bank interest rate decision.
Insights: Uniswap's governance proposal to pilot turning on a “fee switch” has received mostly positive reactions, but the community remains cautious.
As Big Events Approach, Bitcoin Trades Sideways to Hold Over $17K
By James Rubin
Crypto markets remained calm over the weekend as investors girded themselves for what will likely be the last significant events on 2022's inflation front, the release of November's Consumer Price Index (CPI) report on Tuesday and the U.S. Federal Reserve's latest interest rate decision a day later.
Bitcoin was recently trading at $17,114, slightly below where it stood 24 hours earlier, and when it started the weekend. With just a couple of glitches, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has held firmly above $17,000 for the past two weeks as the fallout from crypto exchange FTX's implosion and other industry debacles has slowed.
In an email to CoinDesk, Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, noted that bitcoin has managed to hold the ""17K threshold,"" although the CPI, Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) rate verdict, as well as the U.S. Labor Department's latest jobless claims report on Thursday could affect prices.
""With these key events coming up, volatility is expected but the bias remains to the upside and we’d like to see $20K on the top and respect for $16K at the bottom,"" DiPasquale wrote.
Ether was recently changing hands at about $1,275, also roughly unmoved from the previous day and when the weekend kicked off. Other major cryptos were trading slightly to the red, with decentralized network Cosmos' ATOM recently falling more than 4% and popular meme coin DOGE off 3.6%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, recently sank nearly 0.5%.
Stocks closed down on Friday following an unexpectedly large rise in November's producer price index (PPI), which calculates monthly wholesale prices. Core PPI, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose 0.4%, higher than Wall Street expectations of 0.2%, suggesting that central bank measures to tame inflation have not been fully effective. The tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 each dropped 0.7%.
The University of Michigan's Index of Consumer Sentiment offered a counterpoint to the gloom, rising to 59.1, higher than Dow Jones projections of 56.5. The index also signaled more upbeat attitudes about inflation.
The CPI fell to 7.7% for October, although the decline was not enough to satisfy monetary hawks fearful about the long-term affects of stubborn inflation. The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise the interest rate 50 basis points (bps), a decline from its recent diet of four consecutive rate increases 75 bps, although Fed Chair Jerome Powell and other officials have reiterated their commitment to stem rising prices in recent weeks, and investors have fretted about the possibility of steeper, liquidity-squeezing rate hikes in 2023.
BitBull's DiPasquale wrote that investors are already expecting a 50 bps lift, although it ""could rise further upon the [FOMC] announcement.""
Uniswap 'Fee Switch' Proposal for Ether Pools Stirs Up Community Debate
By Shaurya Malwa
A proposal by crypto exchange Uniswap to test whether reducing trading fees will result in significantly lower volume has attracted a lot of interest from community members and users.
The proposal was put forward in July to pilot a ""fee switch"" for a small set of Uniswap protocol pools. The vote was postponed until Dec. 1 to allow more time for people to think about it. On Dec. 2, the vote moved forward and the decision was to go ahead with the test.
The switch will not increase fees for users, but will retain a small portion of what is currently paid out to liquidity providers (LP), or users who lock up their tokens on Uniswap in exchange for fee rewards.
The fee switch – if enabled considering the current conditions – could potentially mean lesser fee earnings for Uniswap’s liquidity providers and more rewards for holders of Uniswap’s native token UNI, which in turn accrues value for UNI holders.
The proposal is a pilot program and is intended to evaluate the impact of turning on the fee switch on trade execution, on a small set of Uniswap pools that utilize USD coin (USDC), dai (DAI) and ether (ETH) over a 120-day period.
The experiment will be considered a success, Uniswap’s developers said, if trading execution is not diminished for pools with the fee switch turned on. It is one of the many ongoing examples of community-led decisions that dictate the future growth of protocols like Uniswap.
Meanwhile, community reactions remain mostly positive, albeit with caution.
Some users in favor of the proposal said not moving ahead with the changes meant “stifling governance/revenue model innovation,” while some expressed concerns that liquidity providers could pull their funds from the platform.
One user called the proposal “a very important moment for Uniswap,” but opined that it was currently the “wrong time” to execute the move.
“While we may identify that the fee switch does not or has a minimal negative impact on these metrics for certain pools, taxing LPs certainly cannot help here. I see only downside across the core KPIs,” the user, tagged as “Jack_Longarzo” on Uniswap’s governance forum, said.
They added: “The other reason is that this proposal could have very serious and unpredictable negative externalities for the Uniswap community. The Uniswap Foundation’s brief discusses the severe lack of clarity for decentralized finance in the U.S. It is very possible that this proposal could negatively impact community members like Uniswap Labs, the Uniswap Foundation, and even individuals in the community. I don’t think the proposed exploration is justifiable amidst these uncertainties.”
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) United Kingdom Gross Domestic Product (MoM/Oct)
3:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(19:00 UTC) United States Monthly Budget Statement (Nov)
4:25 p.m. HKT/SGT(20:25 UTC) Bank of Canada's Governor Macklem Speech
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Sam Bankman-Fried Agrees to Testify Before Lawmakers; Bitcoin Regains $17K
Sam Bankman-Fried, the former CEO of bankrupt crypto exchange FTX, tweeted he's ""willing"" to testify at a Dec. 13 House Financial Services Committee hearing. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De had the latest. What's the outlook for the top cryptocurrencies in the new year? ""First Mover"" dived into crypto markets with Markus Thielen of Matrixport. And Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt, one of CoinDesk's Most Influential 2022, discussed the big brands jumping into Web3.
Bitcoin's Lightning Network Could Be Getting a Privacy Upgrade: One new standard being developed by Blockstream is already running on the company’s Core Lightning implementation.
Crypto.com Releases Proof-of-Reserves Data Showing Client Assets Are Fully Backed: The examination was done by auditing firm Mazars.
Grayscale, in the Spotlight as GBTC Discount Widens, Says DeFi Fund Now Trading: The debut of the DEFG fund in over-the-counter markets comes as Grayscale’s largest fund, the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), is trading at a record discount and at the center of crypto-market speculation.
India Looks to Coordinate Global Crypto Rulemaking as It Assumes G-20 Presidency: India took over the G-20 presidency at the start of the month and now has a year to coordinate international guidelines around crypto.
Uniswap Foundation Proposes Changes to Crypto DEX's Governance, Voting Processes: The proposal, which will be brought to a vote next week, aims to reduce friction in governance by reframing the steps that bring proposals to votes."
508,191,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/12/ftx-founder-sam-bankman-fried-arrested-bahamas-says/,FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried Arrested in the Bahamas,"U.S. authorities filed criminal charges against Bankman-Fried, and the Bahamas intends to extradite him once U.S. officials request it.",2022-12-12,"The Royal Bahamas Police Force arrested FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, a press statement said.
The arrest came after the U.S. filed criminal charges against Bankman-Fried, the statement said, and the nation expects the U.S. to request the Bahamas extradite Bankman-Fried in short order.
""As a result of the notification received and the material provided therewith, it was deemed appropriate for the Attorney General to seek SBF’s arrest and hold him in custody pursuant to our nation’s Extradition Act,"" the statement, attributed to Attorney General Ryan Pinder, said. ""At such time as a formal request for extradition is made, The Bahamas intends to process it promptly, pursuant to Bahamian law and its treaty obligations with the United States.""
A tweet from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York confirmed that prosecutors in the U.S. indicted Bankman-Fried, though the indictment remains under seal.
USA Damian Williams: Earlier this evening, Bahamian authorities arrested Samuel Bankman-Fried at the request of the U.S. Government, based on a sealed indictment filed by the SDNY. We expect to move to unseal the indictment in the morning and will have more to say at that time.
According to the New York Times, the charges could include wire fraud, securities fraud, money laundering and related conspiracy charges.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also plans to bring charges, a statement from Enforcement Director Gurbir Grewal said.
""We commend our law enforcement partners for working to secure the arrest of Mr. Sam Bankman-Fried in the Bahamas on federal criminal charges,"" he said. ""The Securities and Exchange Commission has separately authorized charges relating to Mr. Bankman-Fried’s violations of our securities laws, which will be filed publicly tomorrow in the Southern District of New York.""
In the Bahamas' statement, Bahamas Prime Minister Philip Davis said the country would continue pursuing its own investigation into FTX's collapse, alongside the U.S.'s criminal charges.
Bankman-Fried was set to testify virtually before the House Financial Services Committee about the exchange's collapse on Tuesday. In a statement, committee Chair Maxine Waters said she was ""surprised to hear"" of the arrest at the U.S. Attorney's office's direction.
""It’s about time the process to bring Mr. Bankman-Fried to justice has begun. However, as the public knows, my staff and I have been working diligently for the past month to secure Mr. Bankman-Fried’s testimony before our Committee tomorrow morning,"" the California Democrat said. ""We received confirmation this afternoon from Mr. Bankman-Fried and his lawyers that he was still planning to appear before the Committee tomorrow, but then he was arrested.""
In a separate news release, the Royal Bahamas Police Force said officers with its Financial Crimes Investigation Unit arrested Bankman-Fried around 6:00 p.m. local time.
""He was arrested reference to various Financial Offences against laws of the United States, which are also offences against laws of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas,"" the document said.
Bankman-Fried will appear in court on Tuesday in the Bahamas. Mark Cohen, Bankman-Fried's attorney, did not immediately return a request for comment.
FTX fell last month after a CoinDesk report revealed that Alameda Research, a sister company also founded by Bankman-Fried, held a large number of FTT tokens, which are issued by FTX.
FTX filed for bankruptcy just over a month ago. Its new CEO, John J. Ray III, said in court filings and prepared Congressional testimony that he had never seen anything quite like the corporate governance and documentation failures that he found at FTX.
Among other issues, he found that FTX had heavily commingled customer and corporate assets, losing billions along the way. In his prepared remarks, published earlier Monday, he said his new team had managed to secure about $1 billion of company assets to date.
For his part, Bankman-Fried went on a press tour after leaving his company, speaking to The New York Times, New York Magazine, Vox and numerous other news outlets. He spoke at a Twitter Spaces and in a live Forbes interview earlier on Monday.
UPDATE (Dec. 12, 2022, 23:45 UTC): Adds additional comment.
UPDATE (Dec. 13, 00:30 UTC): Adds statement from SDNY, additional context.
UPDATE (Dec. 13, 01:01 UTC): Adds statement from Bahamas police.
UPDATE (Dec. 13, 01:45 UTC): Adds additional detail about charges and SEC action.
UPDATE (Dec. 13, 02:40 UTC): Adds statement from Rep. Waters."
509,689,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/12/maple-finances-54m-of-sour-debt-shows-risks-of-crypto-lending-without-collateral/,Maple Finance's $54M of Sour Debt Shows Risks of Crypto Lending Without Collateral,"Maple Finance, the largest unsecured crypto lending platform, is grappling with a debt crisis while gearing up for a major system upgrade. The project's MPL token has plunged, and depositors are likely to stomach big losses. Here's how it happened, and what comes next.",2022-12-12,"The blockchain-based lending protocol Maple Finance started in May 2021 with a bold concept: Build a decentralized credit marketplace for cryptocurrencies, where lenders and borrowers could come together.
Unlike many other decentralized finance (DeFi) lending platforms that have cropped up in recent years in the nascent digital-asset industry, Maple’s model would not require extra cryptocurrencies to be deposited as collateral that could be seized or quickly liquidated in the event of a default. Instead, underwriters of various lending “pools” would make the decision on whether to grant loans – essentially evaluating the borrower’s ability to pay based on their creditworthiness alone.
But this year’s trauma in crypto markets has provided a brutal stress test that now has Maple facing the biggest crisis of its 18-month history.
In just the past two weeks, some $36 million of loans have defaulted with another $18 million distressed. The soured debt represents 66% of the total outstanding in Maple’s four active lending pools, with some of the biggest borrowers acknowledging they were devastated by the spectacular collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX crypto exchange. Maple’s native token, MPL, has tumbled 50% over the period to an all-time low.
Now analysts and participants in the Maple project are grappling with what went wrong and how the rules and procedures might be tweaked to make the platform more sustainable. Because Maple merely serves as the operator of the project and not as a lender to the various pools, it’s not facing its own credit crisis. But with depositors to Maple’s lending pools scarred by the recent losses, a key question is whether participants will stick around.
A major focus of analysts is on what appears to be the Achilles' heel of the business model of uncollateralized crypto lending. Poor protocol design choices combined with dubious human-made decisions left depositors unprotected and facing up to 80% losses.
“Uncollateralized loans in DeFi are still reliant on centralized parties for underwriting, antithetical to the ethos of transparency and decentralization,'' said Walter Teng, vice president of digital assets at market research firm Fundstrat.
Read more: TrueFi's $4M Bad Debt in Limbo Shows Risk of Crypto Lending Without Collateral
Maple rode the wave of the crypto lending boom, growing its loan book to $900 million in a year. The protocol was initially popular among crypto trading firms and market makers hungry for liquidity to borrow. Depositors include average retail investors and institutional players who seek yield. In Maple's decentralized model, the depositors are actually the lenders.
Maple’s loan process is governed by computer-coded smart contracts. However, the protocol has centralized elements.
Every credit pool has a delegate, a financial firm that underwrites the loans and supposedly makes sure the pool’s money is lent to entities that can pay the loans back.
The credit pool manager role is crucial on Maple and its rivals because loans are undercollateralized. It means that borrowers post less assets in value, often nothing at all, to secure a loan. So there's not much to be seized if the loans go bad; it's like a mortgage without a lien on the home.
Earlier this year, after the Terra blockchain’s collapse triggered a wave of cascading losses and a crypto credit crunch, deposits and loans on Maple shrank quickly. FTX’s swift unraveling in November dealt another blow. Outstanding loans fell to $82 million, according to data by Token Terminal.
Two former credit pool managers, crypto lender Celsius Network and FTX sister trading firm Alameda Research, are now in bankruptcy and getting tarred in court and in the media over allegedly unsavory business practices.
A third credit pool manager, Orthogonal Trading, allegedly misrepresented its financials to hide losses from FTX and was booted from Maple on Dec. 5.
One of the two remaining pool managers, M11 Credit, a subsidiary of investment firm Maven 11, has come under fire recently for allowing bad debt to pile up in its three lending pools.
Orthogonal Trading was a large borrower from Maple credit pools managed by M11, and it defaulted on $36 million in loans.
Auros Global missed a payment on a $3 million loan, but M11 chose not to declare default and pursue restructuring. Even before that, M11 Credit had let the troubled borrower extend the maturity for a total of $10 million loans on Nov. 13 by two weeks instead of repaying. Then, on Nov. 27, the debt was extended again.
“If arbitrary extensions are given, what is the point of using blockchain tech other than to watch the goal post move?” one user complained on Maple’s Discord channel.
When asked about the extension, M11 Credit told CoinDesk in an email that it decided to refinance the loans “only after receiving very strong assurances” and “extensive conversations with stakeholders.”
The email added that the “terms are decided at the discretion of the M11 Credit team,” in accordance with Maple’s design.
“Because of this reliance, unfortunately there is no way for outsiders to discern if Auros can service their refinancing or if they are buying time until their inevitable demise,” Fundstrat’s Teng said.
Maple announced Thursday that it will release an overhauled version of the protocol called Maple v2 next week.
The upgrade will include updates in the withdrawal process, an overhaul of the pool cover mechanism and more data on the public pool dashboards, Charlotte Dodds, head of marketing at Maple, said in an email.
“We are far from perfect,” Maple co-founder Joe Flanagan said during the community call Friday. “We are continuing to build for the future.”
Pool managers also ought to aim for a diversified portfolio of loans to multiple borrowers to prevent any systemic risk.
The liquidity crunch and plummeting appetite for borrowing after the FTX crash in November created an extremely difficult situation to sustain a balanced loan book. In the past month Maple’s loan book shrank by two-thirds from $260 million, according to data by Token Terminal.
In the wake of FTX’s bankruptcy filing, most borrowers including Nibbio and Folkvang paid down their loans early and pool managers de-risked their loan books, according to an update by Maple on Nov. 17. Meanwhile, M11 decided not to issue new loans to keep cash deposits high.
The prematurely closed loans freed up ample cash in the credit pools, which allowed depositors unnerved by the FTX drama to withdraw funds. (Per Maple’s code, there’s a 10-day waiting period from initiating withdrawals until users can remove any funds.)
In the end, this led to highly concentrated pools with bad debt to distressed borrowers, and mostly depleted cash deposits in the three problematic pools, according to Maple’s credit dashboard.
As of Dec. 9, one of M11’s USDC stablecoin pools has 80% of all loans to one borrower – Orthogonal Trading. This number was 14% as of Aug. 31, below the threshold, according to Sherlock’s statement.
The M11-led pool for wrapped ether (wETH) – another popular cryptocurrency in DeFi – has 55% of all loans outstanding to embattled Auros and Orthogonal. In M11’s permissioned USDC pool, almost half of the outstanding debt is to Auros.
As one Twitter user pointed out, allowing cash withdrawals and depleting pools meant that those who weren’t fast enough will take most of the losses, instead of spreading the losses among many creditors.
hey @maplefinance why don't you turn off withdraws so that everyone can get haircut equally rather than allowing this first-come first-serve bullshit? you have active defaults, no one should be able to get out whole right now

channeling the sentiment in maple discord pic.twitter.com/2nuYIyF4TQ
Seasoned bankers know that defaults are inevitable in the lending business; that’s why there are built-in safety checks for when it eventually happens. In Maple's case, there may not have been enough precautions taken.
Every credit pool on the platform has a separate fund called “pool cover” that acts like insurance to cover the first losses – or at least a part of it – in the event of a default. To make sure that the pool’s manager acts responsibly and does their best to prevent any defaults, they must lock up assets in the pool cover.
Angry users now question whether the underwriters had enough skin in the game.
M11 Credit has assets worth less than $1.2 million altogether in the pool covers while being responsible for three pools of $74 million of loans and collecting fees for managing.
Any investor can add to this insurance fund by depositing USDC and Maple’s own token, MPL, and earn rewards for taking the risk of first loss.
Still, savvy investors sniffing trouble may move fast to withdraw from the pool cover before a default, depleting the fund to compensate creditors.
At press time, all three M11-managed pools’ pool cover have mostly been depleted, covering only a small percentage of the bad debts.
“Faulty design,” as Fundstrat’s Walter Teng described it.
It’s also problematic that investors in the pool cover deposit a mix of USDC stablecoins and Maple's MPL.
If the funds that are supposed to cover the bad debt are earmarked in the protocol's native token, “the value of this insurance goes lower when the protocol itself is in trouble,” said Kyle Doane, a digital-asset trader at Arca.
MPL dropped 35% last week, which may have contributed to depleting funds to compensate creditors.
The full picture isn’t yet clear, but potential losses amount to tens of millions of dollars.
Based on major creditor Sherlock’s prediction, assets lent to Orthogonal Trading are likely gone for good or could end up in a lengthy litigation.
M11 struck a hopeful tone about restructuring the loans to Auros and salvaging lenders’ money. Alas, hopes are dim following similar struggles at rival uncollateralized lending platform TrueFi, with Blockwater’s loan restructured, only to default a few months later.
Alarming news for lenders is that there’s less than $2 million altogether in the three troubled credit pool’s covers to compensate depositors. Some $1.2 million of that is from M11 Credit.
Maple also mulled seizing another $1.2 million from the Orthogonal-managed credit pool’s insurance fund that the insolvent trading firm posted to boost the fund.
Still, this leaves creditors who were unable to flee in time likely to stomach most of the losses. Two crypto firms, decentralized finance (DeFi) insurance alternative Nexus Mutual and smart contract auditing platform Sherlock, are among the victims, as well as many retail investors.
A similar thing happened at the first default in Maple’s history. In July, when Babel Finance defaulted on a $10 million loan from Orthogonal’s credit pool, creditors booked a $7.9 million loss. However, that meant only a 3.8% haircut because of a much larger pool size.
Because of its design, Maple doesn't stand to lose materially on the defaults. However, the reputational damage and loss of trust may hurt in the long run.
“Maple, the protocol, will likely be fine,” Dustin Teander, analyst at Messari, said. “The key thing that could be done to prevent this is to make credit decisions directly tied to open cash flows and assets instead of general trust.”
“Where Maple’s model could succeed is offering companies a real-time view of collateral and accounting, meaning underwriters can adjust accordingly,” said Timo Lehes, co-founder of Swarm Markets, a regulated DeFi infrastructure provider.
According to Arca’s Doane, two crucial things to improve are “the process of how losses are socialized” and the makeup of assets that are pooled to cover losses.
The coming upgrade on Maple could be an “opportunity to implement some features to better manage risk on the protocol,” Teander said.
Maple's fast-shrinking business might show that such changes can't come soon enough."
510,452,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/12/12/in-the-wake-of-collapse-ftx-fortune-cookies-are-still-on-the-menu/,"In the Wake of Collapse, FTX Fortune Cookies Are Still on the Menu","“My fortune was, ‘There’s a price to waiting,’” Chinese restaurant diner Morgan Polikoff told CoinDesk. “Pretty ironic given that in the case of FTX, the price to waiting was losing all your money in crypto.”",2022-12-12,"It’s been nearly a month since crypto exchange FTX filed for bankruptcy protection, but that hasn't stopped millions of fortune cookies sponsored by the disgraced company from being doled out at Chinese restaurants across the U.S.
The take-out-themed misfortune is being served up by OpenFortune, a New York-based advertising agency that sells wholesale cookies featuring client logos to more than 21,000 U.S. restaurants.
FTX was among OpenFortune’s clients and helped craft ill-timed musings stuffed inside the cookies such as, “You will soon feel a renewed sense of optimism for the future,” “There’s so much more to come,” and “In retrospect, it was inevitable.”
Got a fortune cookie at the restaurant tonight and it had an ad for FTX inside. Not sure what this means for our future. 🥠🤷‍♂️🤣 pic.twitter.com/qvtWtG5t6C
Although the phrases have aged poorly in the wake of the company’s collapse, OpenFortune hasn’t confirmed whether the partnership has been suspended, telling CoinDesk to direct all future questions to FTX, which did not respond for comment.
The partnership, which is likely the exchange’s smallest, is also one of its last remaining. While FTX was previously the powerhouse sponsor behind stadium namings and Super Bowl ads, brands have been eager to scrub any associations with the tattered exchange. The National Basketball Association’s Miami Heat, University of California Berkeley athletic department and esports franchise TSM all cut ties with the exchange in November, ending multi-year deals worth a combined $400 million.
Even if OpenFortune doesn’t honor the remainder of its contract with FTX, the company’s fortune cookies will be on the menu for at least a few more months. A representative of Hua Ting in Hillsdale, Illinois, a Chinese restaurant that works with OpenFortune, said that it still had over three months of FTX cookies left in stock as of late November. OpenFortune distributed more than 400,000 of its cookies to Bradenton, Florida, alone in March.
My fortune cookie’s fortune (from a small restaurant in Michigan) was sponsored by FTX. If only people knew that this was not a fortune, but rather an honest question by FTX… pic.twitter.com/6Mhec1rjW9
Morgan Polikoff, who dined at Hua Ting in November, can still remember his FTX fortune off the top of his head.
“My fortune was, ‘There’s a price to waiting,’” Polikoff told CoinDesk. “Pretty ironic given that in the case of FTX, the price to waiting was losing all your money in crypto.”
On OpenFortune’s website, it pitches to clients that nearly 6% of its cookie eaters share their fortunes on social media. In the case of FTX, it may have gotten its money's worth; hundreds of cookie eaters have shared their FTX fortunes to Twitter and Reddit in the last several months alone.
FTX isn’t OpenFortune’s only crypto tie-up – it has also partnered with VeeFriends, the non-fungible token (NFT) project founded by entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuck."
511,906,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/12/first-mover-asia-qcp-capital-founder-sees-crypto-industrys-immediate-future-tied-to-genesis-debacle-expects-rebound-in-2024/,"First Mover Asia: QCP Capital Founder Sees Crypto Industry’s Immediate Future Tied to Genesis Debacle, Expects Rebound in 2024","During a panel discussion at Taipei Blockchain Week, Darius Sit noted continued institutional adoption of the crypto options and derivatives market, among industry high points; bitcoin rises; Bahamas announces the arrest of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried",2022-12-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin returned to its perch comfortably above $17,000 after dipping earlier in the day amid a news report that Binance was the subject of a U.S. federal probe.
Insights: QCP Capital founder Darius Sit told a Tapei Blockchain Week audience that he does not see a recovery before 2024.
Bitcoin Continues Its Side Ways
By James Rubin
A day before they will have a clearer view of the inflation landscape, investors had to reckon with the crypto industry's latest storm clouds: a report that Binance is the subject of a U.S. Justice Department probe, and later Monday, the arrest of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried.
Bitcoin tumbled below $16,900 at one point before recovering to recently trade at about $17,235, up slightly over the past 24 hours. BTC has spent much of the past two weeks clinging to support above $17,000 and seems likely to continue its tenacious ways for at least another day when the Bureau of Labor Statistics announces November's Consumer Price Index (CPI) report.
Inflation has shown signs of continuing its downward trend of recent months. On Wednesday, the U.S. Federal Reserve will likely drop its latest interest rate increase to 50 basis points (bps) from its current streak of 75 bps hikes, although markets are likely to remain nervously watchful for the time being.
""It's a strong risk-off environment, not just in crypto but across every industry and in every country around the world,"" Hany Rashwan, CEO of 21.co, the parent company of crypto exchange-trading fund firm 21 Shares, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""The easiest way of thinking about this is [in] the last 10 years money has been cheaper to acquire, to borrow. As interest rates go up, the value of money becomes higher, so it becomes harder to get, and as a result people spend more carefully.""
Yet, Rashwan added that his firm has ""been comforted internally by the plateauing of the bitcoin price within a specific band.""
Ether followed a similar pattern to bitcoin, falling earlier in the day before rebounding. The second-largest crypto by market value was recently changing hands at about $1,275, a small gain from Sunday, same time. Most other major cryptos were in the green, with MATIC, the token of layer 2 platform Polygon, and SUSHI, the token of the Sushiswap decentralized exchange, recently rising about 2% and 1%, respectively.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was recently up 0.23%.
U.S. equity indexes closed in an upbeat mood about inflation and the Federal Reserve's expected dovish turn. The tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 rose 1.3% and 1.4%, respectively.
Meanwhile, according to Reuters, the Justice Department has discussed possible plea deals with Binance's lawyers. Prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Seattle began investigating Binance in 2018 after a spate of cases that saw criminals use Binance to transfer illicit funds, according to Reuters. Other prosecutors believe that more evidence needs to be gathered before a criminal case can be filed, causing a split within the Department of Justice.
Late Monday, the Bahamian Attorney General's office announced the arrest of Bankman-Fried. ""SBF's arrest followed receipt of formal notification from the United States that it has filed criminal charges against SBF and is likely to request his extradition,"" the office wrote in a release. ""As a result of the notification received and the material provided therewith, it was deemed appropriate for the Attorney General to seek SBF's arrest and hold him in custody pursuant to our nation's Extradition Act.""
Genesis Shakeout Will Determine When Crypto Can Rebound
By Sam Reynolds
Everything that could go wrong in crypto has gone wrong in crypto, QCP Capital’s founder and chief investment officer said during a panel at Taipei Blockchain Week. But there are still uses for the asset class, and ""green shoots"" are emerging.
“We are in a credit crisis triggered by LUNA and UST,” QCP’s Darius Sit said on stage, referring to the Terra token and algorithmic stablecoin. “This means there are cascading effects on everyone that had credit risks, and there are still some landmines in the space.”
Sit said that he sees a great reset and washout caused by the credit crisis, which won't end until investors see whether Digital Currency Group (DCG) and its Genesis Global Trading unit are going to collapse or stay together. (DCG is also the parent company of CoinDesk).
“If this comes apart, there’s another round of defaults,” he said.
Sit pegs a recovery happening around 2024, but macroeconomics will also play a role in this. He noted that the most successful appreciation of digital asset prices came during the COVID-19 pandemic when the U.S. Fed was enlarging its balance sheet. But now the opposite is happening.
As far as the use cases and green shoots go, Sit points to the strength of the stablecoin industry, which Sit says has record revenue. There’s also the continued institutional adoption of the crypto options and derivatives market, where QCP is the most active.
“The trading teams are all former [foreign exchange] people,” Sit said.
If there’s one thing that not even a “dot-com bubble and 2008” can change, it's that everyone is now talking about crypto, Sit said. Meaning, from the cab driver to the banker to the former FX people now trading crypto options and derivatives. Things like NFTs and Web3 gaming will survive this market cycle – but just at a lower valuation.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) European Union Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (YoY/Nov)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Consumer Price Index ex Food & Energy (YoY/Nov)
7:50 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:50 UTC) Bank of Japan Tankan Non-Manufacturing Outlook (Q4)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
US Prosecutors Reportedly Split on Charging Binance Over Possible Money Laundering; Bitcoin Trades Sideways
Tuesday, lawmakers will hear from Sam Bankman-Fried after his crypto exchange, FTX, filed for bankruptcy protection. The former CEO is scheduled to testify before the House Financial Services Committee in the first of two hearings this week on the FTX collapse. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De had a preview of the hearings and an update on the U.S. Justice Department's reported investigation of FTX rival Binance. Also, 21.co co-founder and CEO Hany Rashwan shared his crypto markets outlook. Plus, Paul Brody of Ernst & Young kicked off ""Crypto 2023: What's Next For Crypto?""
Coinbase Says Law Enforcement Requests Rose 66% From Year Ago: The number of requests from the U.S., which accounted for about 43% of the total, increased by 6%.
Ark Invest Adds Coinbase Stock as Crypto Exchange's Price Slides: The purchase takes the ARK Innovation ETF's holding to 5.7 million COIN shares and marks its first investment in the crypto exchange in a month.
US Prosecutors Look to Charge Binance, Executives on Possible Money Laundering Violations, Reuters Reports: The Department of Justice has also discussed a possible plea deal with Binance's lawyers, the report added.
Bitcoin Group Agrees to Buy German Bank Bankhaus von der Heydt for More Than $15M: The transaction is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2023.
Bermuda Digital Bank Jewel Issues ‘Fully-Backed’ Stablecoin: The Jewel USD stablecoin will be launching on Polygon."
512,1040,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/12/terras-do-kwon-is-in-serbia-report/,"Terra's Do Kwon Is in Serbia, CoinDesk Korea Reports","The Terraform Labs co-founder is wanted in South Korea, backed by Interpol.",2022-12-12,"Do Kwon, who is wanted internationally in connection with the collapse of the Terra ecosystem, has moved to Serbia through Dubai, CoinDesk Korea reported on Monday.
Kwon was the co-founder and CEO of Terraform Labs, which was behind the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) that was deppeged from the U.S. dollar in May. The depegging quickly sent luna (LUNA), the token that was used to stabilize UST, on a downward spiral. The Terra domino was the first to fall in a crypto winter that most recently saw the collapse of crypto exchange FTX.
South Korea, where Kwon is from, had issued an arrest warrant for the founder. Interpol had also reportedly issued a red notice for the co-founder, which is a request to law enforcement around the world to locate and provisionally arrest a person pending extradition, surrender or similar legal action.
The Seoul Southern District Prosecutor's office said Monday that Kwon was in Serbia, and the local Ministry of Justice was in the process of asking Serbian authorities for their cooperation in the investigation, CoinDesk Korea reported.
Kwon left South Korea in April for Singapore, and went to Dubai in October, from where he went to Serbia, CoinDesk Korea reported. Authorities are concerned that he might have already moved to another country; his passport has been invalidated so authorities cannot check official records, according to the report.
Bloomberg had earlier reported that Kwon was in Europe.
Prosecutors asked for an arrest warrant for Terra's other co-founder, Daniel Shin, but courts denied the request as they don't believe he will flee or try to destroy evidence.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA"
513,795,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/12/12/polygons-nft-market-demonstrates-signs-of-significant-increased-adoption-but-not-growth-in-sale-volume-nansen-data-shows/,"Polygon’s NFT Market Demonstrates Signs of Significant Increased Adoption, but Not Growth in Sale Volume, Nansen Data Shows","Amid a crypto winter exacerbated by the FTX fallout, first-time and returning buyers have reached all-time highs in Polygon’s non-fungible token market. Yet, sales volumes are near all-time lows.",2022-12-12,"Polygon’s NFT market is currently experiencing significant increased adoption, thanks to its collaborations with name-brand companies such as Reddit.
Despite crypto winter, first-time and returning buyers per day in Polygon’s non-fungible token (NFT) market reached new all-time highs during the last month of the year, per data from blockchain analytics platform Nansen. The surge comes even as NFT ecosystems on other chains such as Ethereum and Solana have a decreasing number of users per week.
Solana’s NFT users per week dropped from over 160,000 users in late September to less than 60,000 users today, while Ethereum’ users per week dropped roughly 250,000 users to some 183,000 users in the same time period.
Covering only mints and NFT projects on OpenSea, Nansen’s data for the past year indicates the number of first-time buyers varied between 1,000 and 10,000, while the number of returning buyers were between 10,000 to 15,000 per day.
On Dec. 11, the number of first-time buyers climbed to 43,761 from 1,858 on Oct 5. The number of returning buyers rose to 81,317 from 8,739 on Oct. 5.
Polygon’s NFT market in the past 24 hours had 10 collections with over 180,000 holders and four collections with above 500,000. For juxtaposition, Ethereum’s NFT market in the past 24 hours had four collections with over 100,000 holders and one collection above 500,000. Solana’s NFT market didn't have a single collection above 30,000 holders in the past 24 hours, Nansen data suggests.
Out of the top 10 collections in the past 24 hours for Polygon’s NFT market, four of them are connected to Reddit, which were airdropped in late August as part of Reddit’s initial push to integrate blockchain technology.
Referring to Polygon’s collaboration with mainstream brands such as Nike, Starbucks and Reddit, Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt, told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover,” “We’ve built this great funnel for partners to come through and make the onboarding to Polygon really seamless.”
Additionally, the number of users per week in Polygon’s NFT ecosystem grew more than 500% since early August, resembling buyers per day. Between Dec. 5 and Dec. 12, the blockchain had over 240,000 users, an all-time high for the number of users per week.
Polygon’s transactions per week for the past four weeks totaled roughly 24.36 million transactions, with the majority coming from mints, showing increased activity compared with previous weeks in 2022.
Even though the most recent week ending on Dec. 12 had a lower number of transactions compared to the previous three weeks, transactions in this past week, which stand at some three million, exceed almost all other weeks in 2022, according to Nansen data.
Year to date, Polygon NFTs have had a total of 338 million MATIC, worth $305 million, in trading volume across 2.27 million unique wallets.
Even though buyers, users and transactions per week are posting new highs, trading volume per week in recent months is near the lows, “suggesting most activity are free mints/low value purchasing,” tweeted Martin Lee, senior data journalist at Nansen. The increase in adoption has not yet translated into an increase in trading volume, data from Nansen shows.
“My view is that the current adoption path largely led by @Fwiz [Ryan Wyatt, CEO of Polygon Studios] and team at @0xPolygon helps to remove the current stigma and idea that NFTs’ main value is speculation,” tweeted Lee in an original Twitter thread about the growth adoption in Polygon’s NFT ecosystem."
514,905,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/12/goldman-regulators-should-protect-crypto-investors-at-the-point-of-trust-not-the-blockchain/,"Goldman: Regulators Should Protect Crypto Investors at the Point of Trust, Not the Blockchain","Recent crises in the crypto market repeat a story as old as time, with a new asset attracting unsophisticated investors looking to make millions, the report said.",2022-12-12,"The demise of FTX is a story as old as financial markets and does not reflect a failure of blockchain technology, but the lack of regulation around the “point of trust” – where money is exchanged on the promise of a future return, Goldman Sachs (GS) said in a research report Friday.
Recent crises in the crypto market follow a well-trodden path, the report said: “A highly volatile and relatively new asset creates the potential for instant riches, drawing in many unsophisticated investors looking for the opportunity to make millions.”
New financial instruments are lightly regulated because they are not covered by existing rules and regulators have yet to identify the potential for harm, the note said. That’s the reason the crypto bubble of recent years involved more widespread fraud than the dot-com boom at the turn of the century, which happened in the well-regulated equity market.
“Regulation is needed at the point of trust, where money is exchanged on the promise of some future return, because it is the time component that creates the opportunity for fraud,” analysts Jeff Currie and Daniel Sharp wrote.
To access the market, investors must go through a gatekeeper, such as a crypto exchange like FTX, and speculative investors are willing to give money to these institutions in the hopes of getting rich quickly.
Despite the crises of 2022, Goldman says cryptocurrencies are likely to flourish, and the key to their success depends on rulemakers correctly identifying what to regulate.
In crypto, it’s “the point of trust, not the trustless blockchains themselves,” Goldman said. Once the financial features of digital assets are sorted out, regulators should not interfere with the blockchains themselves, the bank added.
When a token is used as a financial instrument, as when Terra’s UST stablecoin was lent out on Anchor for a 20% yield, it should be regulated like other securities, the report said, and until regulators can classify which tokens fall into this category, the “opportunity for fraud in crypto will persist.”
Goldman notes that decentralized financial (DeFi) lending systems, in which financial applications are carried out on a blockchain, don’t pose the same counterparty risk as traditional banks. In DeFi lending, collateral is visible to all members of the pool and is automatically liquidated if the value approaches the value of the loan. Collateral can be retrieved without the need for court proceedings or at a discount to the loan, by using smart contracts.
“This resolves the question of trust, the very thing regulation to safeguard investors would be intended for,” the bank said.
Read more: Bank of America Says Regulation Is Key for Mainstream Adoption of Crypto"
515,1044,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/13/synfutures-says-new-v2-upgrade-adds-permissionless-listing-of-futures/,SynFutures Says New v2 Upgrade Adds ‘Permissionless Listing’ of Futures,"The upgrade includes permissionless trading and improved user protections amid to widens accessibility of DeFi among retail investors, according to Singapore-based SynFutures.",2022-12-13,"SynFutures, a decentralized exchange on the Polygon network, said its new version (v)2 upgrade will allow for permissionless listing of futures trading pairs.
The Singapore-based company, backed by the crypto investment firms Polychain and Dragonfly, said the upgrade could meet growing interest among retail traders in decentralized finance, or DeFi. The trend accelerated after the collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange and Three Arrows Capital added a “sense of urgency to the need for transparency and retail user protections,” SynFutures said in a press release.
With the upgrade, ”traders can permissionlessly list any futures trading pairs, leading to a wider array of choices,” according to the company.
SynFutures said its v2 upgrade has also introduced the Synthetic Automated Market Maker (sAMM) technology, which allows liquidity providers to supply just one asset of a trading pair like a stablecoin, as opposed to an equal amount of both tokens, as is common with most AMMs.
Other upgraded features include improving the user interface with a one-click design and strengthening risk-management features, according to SynFutures.
SynFutures is the largest decentralized exchange for crypto derivatives on Polygon, with $1.4 billion in monthly trading volume, according to the company. In June 2021 the company announced that it raised $14 million in a Series A funding round led by Polychain, bringing the total funding to date to $15.5 million."
516,1043,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/13/first-mover-americas-bankman-fried-arrested-in-bahamas/,First Mover Americas: Bankman-Fried Arrested in Bahamas,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Dec. 13, 2022.",2022-12-13,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The Royal Bahamas Police Force arrested FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried. The founder of the collapsed crypto exchange will appear in court on Tuesday in the Bahamas. ""He was arrested in reference to various financial offenses against laws of the United States, which are also offenses against laws of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas,"" a document said. This comes after the collapsed crypto exchange filed for bankruptcy in the U.S. last month, owing its 50 largest creditors almost $3.1 billion.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has charged Bankman-Fried for defrauding investors, according to a release on Tuesday. Legal filings claim that he inappropriately used customer funds to bail out the supposedly separate trading arm Alameda Research and fund both Bankman-Fried's personal lifestyle and political donations. “We allege that Sam Bankman-Fried built a house of cards on a foundation of deception while telling investors that it was one of the safest buildings in crypto,"" SEC Chairman Gary Gensler said in a statement.
SEC sticks to its guns on denying Grayscale’s bitcoin trust (GBTC) conversion. In the regulator’s first response brief since Grayscale sued the SEC over its spot bitcoin exchange-traded fund application rejection on June 29, the SEC reiterated that its reasons for denying Grayscale’s applications were consistent with its earlier decisions to deny every other spot bitcoin ETF application it had received. GBTC was trading at a record discount of 49.12% relative to the price of bitcoin on Tuesday. (Grayscale is a sister company of CoinDesk.)
Chainlink’s new “staking” program – where participants can earn crypto rewards for helping to secure the network – was intended to be broad-based: The price-feed provider imposed a limit of 7,000 LINK tokens per wallet to “promote greater inclusion and reduce the risk of a few participants dominating the pool in the early stages,” according to the project team. But blockchain data reveals how one large holder – a “whale” in crypto parlance – was able to get around the limits by creating more than 150 addresses – and then staking the full 7,000 LINK allotment from each of them. The elaborate effort allowed the whale, nicknamed “Oldwhite” by the OpenSea platform, to stake some 1.06 million LINK ($7 million worth).
The chart shows the number of bitcoin held in miner wallets going back to January 2021.
The balance held by miners or those responsible for making coins has now dropped to 1.818 million BTC, the lowest since October 2021, extending the slide from the July high of 1.84 million.
Miners' balance sheets have deteriorated this year as bitcoin prices have slumped, denting revenues.
– Omkar Godbole
Goldman Sachs Sees Gold Outperforming Bitcoin in the Longer Term
Binance Withdrawals Surge as Concerns About Its Reserve Report Spook Traders
Citi Downgrades Robinhood, Says FTX Fallout Will Weigh on Crypto Trading Revenue"
517,121,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/13/top-us-lawmaker-says-ftx-hearing-will-continue-without-sam-bankman-fried/,Top US Lawmaker Says FTX Hearing Will Continue Without Sam Bankman-Fried,House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters said she was 'surprised' and 'disappointed' to hear of SBF's arrest.,2022-12-13,"The U.S. House Financial Services Committee hearing on the collapse of crypto exchange FTX will go on as planned on Tuesday, even without former CEO and founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who has been arrested.
Bankman-Fried was taken into custody by Bahamas police late on Monday. As soon as the island nation got word that the U.S. had charged the former CEO, reportedly for fraud and money laundering, the Bahamas arrested him, expecting a request for extradition.
Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), chair of the U.S. committee holding the hearing, said she was ""surprised"" to hear of Bankman-Fried's arrest and ""disappointed"" that he would not be testifying before the committee.
""Although Mr. Bankman-Fried must be held accountable, the American public deserves to hear directly from Mr. Bankman-Fried about the actions that’ve harmed over one million people, and wiped out the hard-earned life savings of so many,"" Waters said of the FTX failure.
Bankman-Fried, who has given numerous media interviews since the implosion of his empire despite being under criminal investigation, agreed to participate in the hearing on Dec. 9.
FTX, once a darling of Wall Street, Washington, D.C., and the media , filed for bankruptcy protection on Nov. 11, days after a CoinDesk article revealed that much of its sister firm Alameda Research's balance sheet was made up of FTT tokens, which are issued by FTX. That triggered a bank run on FTX deposits, which eventually led to the exchange's insolvency.
Read more: FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried Arrested, Bahamas Says"
518,188,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/13/bankman-fried-lawsuits-expose-ftxs-special-treatment-of-alameda-research/,Bankman-Fried Lawsuits Expose FTX's 'Special Treatment' of Alameda Research,"Sam Bankman-Fried’s “personal piggy bank” Alameda Research was deeply intertwined with his exchange, FTX.",2022-12-13,"Court filings against alleged crypto fraudster Sam Bankman-Fried are shedding more light on the cozy relationship that burned down his empire: the one between crypto exchange FTX and its sister hedge fund Alameda Research.
“There was no meaningful distinction between FTX customer funds and Alameda’s own,” the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged Tuesday. Alameda is said to have improperly siphoned $8 billion from customers of the now-bankrupt FTX.
In its own suit, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said Alameda enjoyed special access to FTX’s trading backend. It could execute trades faster than other customers and was exempt from auto-liquidation, both “unfair advantages,” the suit said. And it could borrow as much money as it liked.
Alameda Research was the giant crypto hedge fund and market making firm that Sam Bankman-Fried launched in 2017, well before FTX. It started as a bitcoin arbitrage trader but quickly grew into one of the industry's most influential names, both for its perceived trading prowess and its billions of dollars in capital. Alameda's stature rose in tandem with FTX's; Bankman-Fried ran both until October 2021, when he declared he was leaving the fund.
Publicly, the firms claimed to be two different companies that operated ""at an arm's length,"" Alameda's former CEO Caroline Ellison has previously said. But in reality Bankman-Fried ran FTX and Alameda in lockstep, the suits allege. And Alameda was playing with FTX customers' funds.
Bankman-Fried, who owns 90% of Alameda, was arrested in the Bahamas Monday and faces criminal money laundering, conspiracy and fraud charges in the U.S. His stunning fall from CEO at the top of the crypto industry to international defendant took just over one month.
In that time, the 30-year-old former billionaire had embarked on an aggressive apology tour to cast his role in FTX’s implosion as stupid and reckless but hardly criminal. At times he jumped around questions that probed Alameda’s relationship with FTX and has repeatedly denied knowing of any back doors.
The new suits take direct aim at Bankman-Fried’s assertions. He “directed” FTX to let Alameda do things its other customers could not, such as fall below margin requirements on risky bets and execute trades when its accounts were empty, the suits allege. They went on to say these loopholes were baked into FTX’s code at Bankman-Fried’s direction.
When institutional customers like Alameda placed trades on FTX they used an API, which is by design more streamlined – and thus faster – than the website retail traders use. But Alameda’s access was faster still. According to the CFTC, it “was able to bypass certain portions” of the FTX API to move “several milliseconds faster” than other big spenders.
Part of Alameda’s speed boost was due to its other special privileges. Because it didn’t need to have enough money to place trades, it wholly sidestepped the automatic balance check that other accounts had to clear. This gave Alameda “another significant speed advantage.”
Once, when Alameda maxed out its borrowing limit on FTX, Bankman-Fried told staffers to set a ceiling so high it would never be reached, the CFTC alleged. Alameda could theoretically withdraw tens of billions of dollars from FTX.
Alameda’s infinite money glitch led to the hedge fund repaying “billions of dollars of loans” using customer deposits, according to the U.S. Department of Justice. It unsealed criminal charges against Sam Bankman-Fried Tuesday after the former FTX CEO’s arrest in the Bahamas.
Bankman-Fried tried to hide the relationship between his “personal piggy bank” and FTX by routing money to seemingly unaffiliated bank accounts that Alameda controlled, according to the SEC. FTX used the unassuming account name “fiat@ftx.com” to track its sister company’s multi-billion-dollar debts without raising eyebrows. And Alameda never told third parties that its “loan” was from FTX.
Even when FTX tried to untangle its liabilities in 2022 it gave special treatment to Alameda. Bankman-Fried stopped the exchange’s accounting systems from charging interest on the hedge fund’s $8 billion liability (it had done so automatically, per the SEC).
Bankman-Fried “drafted and shared a document that questioned whether Alameda should be permanently shut down” in September 2022, months before it imploded, according to the CFTC.
His reasoning: Alameda was taking on more risk than it was worth.
“I think it might be time for Alameda Research to shut down. Honestly, it was probably time to do that a year ago,” Bankman-Fried wrote in a document titled “We came, we saw, we researched.”
At the same time, Bankman-Fried acknowledged that Alameda played such a large role in FTX’s operations that it might be impossible to pull the plug. As FTX's primary market maker, ensured trades went smoothly for all FTX customers, not just itself. Disappearing Alameda would create a shortfall in liquidity that might undermine FTX's value as an exchange.
“Given the amount that Alameda is doing, we can’t really shut it down,” he wrote, according to the CFTC.
The SEC and CFTC chart Nov. 2 as the day Alameda and FTX began to unravel. On that day, the regulators said CoinDesk published an article that probed Alameda’s extensive FTT token holdings. FTT is a token issued by FTX, and Alameda had billions of dollars of FTT and other FTX-linked tokens on its balance sheet.
“On November 6, 2022, in response to this article, the CEO of [rival exchange] Binance tweeted that, “[d]ue to recent revelations that have came (sic) to light,” he would be selling the remainder of his significant FTT holdings, which he acquired during the buyout from FTX seed investment,” the CFTC said, referring to CEO Changpeng Zhao.
Binance’s call-to-liquidate tanked the price of FTT and triggered a run on deposits at FTX. One day later, it became clear to the exchange that it didn’t have enough cash to cover for customers, the CFTC said.
At the same time, Alameda traders were directed to “sell everything that could be sold” in a mad dash to “generally do anything possible to quickly obtain billions of dollars in capital to send to FTX,” the CFTC said, noting Bankman-Fried played a key role in that effort.
Bankman-Fried also planned to use Alameda’s fire sale to fill a hole at FTX US, which was also getting pummeled by withdrawals. Executives there had found “a shortfall they did not understand and were unable to quantify,” per the CFTC. (During his apology tour Bankman-Fried insisted that the U.S. exchange was never insolvent.)
“On November 8, Bankman-Fried directed Alameda traders to prioritize meeting FTX US capital requirements and to send excess capital to FTX US. On information and belief, Alameda sent in excess of $185 million to FTX US to fill its shortfall,” the CFTC said.
It was just one more criss-cross in the sprawling, unspoken ties between Alameda and all aspects of the FTX empire."
519,797,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/13/crypto-markets-today-sam-bankman-fried-hearing-tops-another-troubling-day/,Crypto Markets Today: Sam Bankman-Fried Hearing Tops Another Troubling Day,But prices rose on U.S. inflation data that was more favorable than expected.,2022-12-13,"Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried told a Bahamas judge on Tuesday that he was not waiving his right to fight extradition to the U.S.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The former titan of industry appeared in a Nassau, Bahamas, courtroom on Tuesday morning to face an extradition order from the U.S. on federal charges of wire fraud, conspiracy and other allegations.
Bankman-Fried was arrested in Nassau on Monday evening after a magistrate judge signed an emergency warrant for his arrest at the request of prosecutors with the U.S. Attorney's Office in New York.
Bankman-Fried’s parents, Joe Bankman and Barbara Fried, were seated in the third row behind members of the press. They appeared to oscillate between dejection and defiance, at times holding their heads in their hands and clasping their hands. Bankman-Fried’s mother audibly laughed several times when her son was referred to as a “fugitive” and his father occasionally put his fingers in his ears as if to drown out the sound of the proceedings.
Bankman-Fried's lawyers have requested bail, according to Reuters.
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH): The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization climbed 4% to the $17,700 level after the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI) report showed inflation slowing more than expected in November. The report signaled progress in the Federal Reserve's campaign to stem soaring inflation. BTC was trading as high as $17,954 over the past 24 hours. Ether followed a similar pattern, trading up 4% to $1,310. Equity markets also turned green, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite closing up 1.01%. The S&P 500, which has a strong technology component, was up 0.73% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) was up 0.3%.
Algorand (ALGO): The layer 1 technology's token was trading up about 3% to 22 U.S. cents on Tuesday after it was selected to be the blockchain to support a digital guarantees platform in Italy. It will be the first time a European Union member state enables the use of blockchain technology for bank and insurance guarantees.
USD coin (USDC): Early Tuesday, surging outflows prompted Binance to halt user withdrawals in USDC stablecoin temporarily, adding to speculation and anxiety among crypto investors already rattled by this year’s market turmoil. Withdrawals of the stablecoin USDC have now resumed. USDC is an Ethereum-based stablecoin whose value is pegged 1:1 with the U.S. dollar.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Bitcoin's price pushed higher following better-than-expected inflation data on Tuesday. The report showed U.S. inflation rising 7.1% versus the 7.3% projected by economists responding to a FactSet survey. November marks the second consecutive month that inflation has risen at a slower pace than expected.
Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) prices jumped immediately after Tuesday's CPI announcement and were recently up 3.3% and 3.5%, respectively.
A screen for high trading activity shows BTC and ETH appearing on a list of more than 10 cryptocurrencies whose trading volume exceeded its 20-day moving average by more than 50%.
Read the full technical take here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at Sam Bankman-Fried’s arrest.
With Founder Facing Charges, New CEO Says FTX Embezzled Customer Cash
Silvergate Shares Drop to Fresh 2-Year Low Amid FTX Testimony
Crypto Market’s Near-Apocalypse in 2022 Turns Zombie Tokens Into Dead Coins
Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Discount Reaches Record 50%
Citi Downgrades Robinhood, Says FTX Fallout Will Weigh on Crypto Trading Revenue
FTX Debacle Could Lead to Crypto Legislation ‘Momentum’: Blockchain Association’s Kristin Smith
Crypto Exchange Binance.US Introduces Payments Service for US Customers"
520,796,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/14/crypto-lending-platform-maple-finance-unveils-major-overhaul-stops-lending-on-solana/,"Crypto Lending Platform Maple Finance Unveils Major Overhaul, Stops Lending on Solana","The improvements attempt to solve Maple’s design shortcomings highlighted during a recent debt crisis, but they may reduce incentives for holding the protocol’s native MPL token in its new form, an analyst said.",2022-12-14,"Blockchain-based lending platform Maple Finance unveiled Wednesday a major protocol overhaul in an attempt to improve on shortcomings highlighted by a spate of recent loan defaults.
Maple is a credit marketplace where institutional borrowers can take out undercollateralized loans from credit pools and investors can provide liquidity to earn a yield on deposits. Each credit pool has a delegate, a financial firm that underwrites the loans and runs due diligence on borrowers.
According to Maple’s blog post, the upgraded version, called Maple 2.0, includes improvements on the withdrawal request process, introducing an option to schedule and prorate withdrawals.
It also eliminates the lockup period on new deposits, which previously led to smart contract auditing platform Sherlock losing $4 million.
MPL is up 6.9% in the past 24 hours on the news, per data by price tracking site CoinGecko, outperforming the wider crypto markets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is up 1.15%.
The new version features an overhauled protection mechanism called “first-loss capital” for lenders, which ostensibly absorbs some losses when a loan defaults. Now, only pool delegates provide funds to the default protection and can only be denominated in the same asset as are in the credit pool.
This move essentially eliminated staking MPL, Maple’s governance token, in the default protection fund, which was a popular yield-earning strategy for some investors.
In a previous iteration, assets in the default protection fund were a combination of USDC stablecoin and MPL tokens, and investors could stake their MPL tokens to earn rewards for contributing to the first-loss capital. In practice, stakers withdrew and dumped MPL when a default was looming, resulting in depleted funds to absorb losses.
“Good design updates,” Walter Teng, vice president of digital assets for research firm Fundstrat, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat.
However, eliminating MPL from the pool cover and halting staking may seriously reduce utility of the protocol’s native token, he added.
Over the past month, MPL token’s price plummeted 52%.
MPL staking rewards have been halted “due to subdued revenues, volatile market and the need to strengthen Maple fundamentals,” according to a spokesperson’s post on Maple’s Discord server.
The upgrade attempts to patch Maple’s protocol design flaws as it is grappling with its largest debt crisis in its 18-month history. The protocol accrued $54 million of distressed debt in the last two weeks as two of its borrowers, Auros Global and Orthogonal Trading became insolvent due to the implosion of FTX, the recently arrested Sam Bankman-Fried’s crypto exchange. Maple liquidity providers now face steep losses on their deposits while MPL fell to an all-time low.
Read more: Maple Finance's $54M of Sour Debt Shows Risks of Crypto Lending Without Collateral
Along with the upgrade, Maple made a ""strategic decision"" to double down on using the Ethereum blockchain and discontinue lending on the Solana blockchain, according to a blog post.
""By making improvements to the Maple Ethereum app as well as Ethereum’s move to [proof-of-stake], we are confident that frictions on Ethereum will no longer be prohibitive to current and prospective users of the Maple protocol,"" Maple said.
Maple introduced lending on the Solana blockchain in April with ambitious plans to grow credit pools to $300 million by the end of 2022.
The move represents a symbolic blow to Solana's reputation as a challenger blockchain to Ethereum after the FTX blowup. Alameda Research and FTX, flagship firms of Bankman-Fried's crypto empire, were significant investors in the Solana ecosystem."
521,799,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/14/australia-moves-to-tighten-safety-around-crypto-in-2023/,Australia Moves to Tighten Safety Around Crypto in 2023,Australia's Treasury has invited feedback for a consultation paper that will include a framework for regulating crypto service providers.,2022-12-14,"The Australian government has promised to establish a framework for the licensing and regulation of crypto service providers in 2023, the nation's Treasury announced on Wednesday.
The move is part of a plan to modernize Australia’s financial system and comes in the wake of the FTX collapse that forced the management of its Australian entities to hand over control to licensed insolvency practitioners who independently assess the financial situation.
Developing appropriate custody and licensing settings to safeguard consumers will be part of the next steps the government takes, the announcement said.
""Unfortunately, our regulatory architecture has not kept pace with changes in the market,"" said the joint release by Australia's Treasurer Jim Chalmers and Assistant Treasurer and Minister for Financial Services Stephen Jones. ""In many areas, the previous government sat on its hands. In other areas, it made announcements but didn’t deliver.""
Significantly, the government will assess which tokens or ""digital assets should be regulated by financial services laws"" as part of its ongoing ""token mapping"" work. In August, Australia's Treasury announced it would prioritize token mapping work, which involves uncovering the characteristics of all digital asset tokens in Australia including charting the type of crypto asset, its underlying code and any other defining technological feature.
The framework for the licensing and regulation of crypto service providers will be part of ""a strategic plan for the payments system"" of Australia set to be released in the first quarter of 2023 for which a consultation paper was released simultaneously. The consultation paper invites feedback till Feb. 6, 2023, and touches upon various aspects of the crypto eco system including digital wallets, stablecoins, crypto assets and central bank digital currencies.
This also includes exploring “the policy rationale for an Australian CBDC, including investigating the economic, legal, regulatory and technological considerations associated with an Australian CBDC.” Australia's central bank is expected to complete its CBDC pilot by mid-2023.
On Tuesday, news emerged that CEO Laura Mercurio departed Blockchain Australia, the nation's industry body advocating for appropriate regulation and policy. The Australian Financial Review reported that Mercurio left just weeks after her appointment in early September citing “differences of opinion” with the board.
Blockchain Australia and Laura Mercurio didn't immediately respond to requests for comments.
Read More: Australia's CBDC Pilot to Be Completed in 2023"
522,909,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/14/first-mover-asia-busan-as-blockchain-hub-the-korean-city-is-traveling-the-wrong-path-no-bail-for-bankman-fried/,First Mover Asia: Busan as Blockchain Hub? The Korean City Is Traveling the Wrong Path; No Bail for Bankman-Fried,Busan wants to integrate blockchain technology into all facets of government service and create the first city-run crypto exchange; bitcoin embraces encouraging CPI to rise over $17.7K.,2022-12-14,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos liked the sound of inflation slowing by more than expected in November.
Insights: The South Korean city of Busan wants to be a blockchain hub, but it is forgetting a few inconvenient truths.
Inflation Slows, Bitcoin Accelerates
By James Rubin
Former FTX boss and crypto wunderkind Sam Bankman-Fried went to a Bahamian jail, was denied bail and verbally pummeled at a congressional hearing by the executive who replaced him as the exchange's CEO.
Binance saw a torrent of withdrawals hours after a report that U.S. prosecutors were considering criminal charges against the exchange. Shares of crypto-friendly bank Silvergate plummeted to a two-year low.
The digital asset industry had a memorable 24 hours, though not for the reasons it would prefer.
Yet, crypto markets only had eyes for encouraging inflation figures from November.
Bitcoin was recently trading at $17,765, a 3.2% gain over the past 24 hours, as investors embraced the latest consumer price index (CPI) data, which showed prices rising 7.1%, lower than the 7.3% projected by economists responding to a FactSet survey. The CPI soared over 9% earlier this year.
“It’s pretty clear that the back of inflation has been broken,"" Jacob Sansbury, co-founder and CEO of Pluto, a provider of DIY automated investing services for retail investors, wrote to CoinDesk. After all, CPI prints are trailing indicators.""
Sansbury added: ""This is an auspicious sign for bitcoin and crypto, along with other risk assets. I’m not saying that a bottom has formed yet fully for the crypto market, but from today’s lower-than-expected CPI print, it’s pretty clear that a bottom is very, very close.""
Ether was recently changing hands at $1,319, also up 3.4% from Monday, same time. Most other major cryptos had a solid green hue with AVAX, the token of base layer network Avalanche, and LINK, the token of software platform, Chainlink recently rising 5.8% and 3.2%, respectively. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, recently climbed nearly 2.4%.
U.S. equity indexes embraced the encouraging CPI figures more quietly as the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 climbed 1% and 0.7%, respectively. The Bureau of Labor Statistics on Tuesday also showed core inflation, which excludes more volatile food and fuel costs, increasing 6% versus expectations of 6.2% and offered additional evidence that the U.S. central bank's monetary hawkishness during the past six months has been working.
U.S. Treasury yields, which hovered above 4% just a few months ago, sank to 3.5% on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the Fed is likely to raise the interest rate 50 basis points (bps), a decline from its streak of four straight 75 bps increases.
Meanwhile, Bankman-Fried was remanded to custody and will face an extradition hearing on Feb. 8, 2023. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York unsealed the indictment earlier on Tuesday, announcing that officials were charging Bankman-Fried with wire fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering and campaign violation allegations, among other alleged crimes. FTX collapsed last month after CoinDesk found irregularities in its balance sheet.
In a Tweet on Tuesday, Binance founder and CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao wrote that he welcomed a “stress test” of withdrawals on his exchange to address rising user redemption requests from the platform.
Of cryptos' Tuesday price surge, Bob Ras, co-founder of exchange and digital asset ecosystem Sologenic, noted cautiously in an email to CoinDesk that the bounce was not ""as substantial as many had hoped for.""
""This isn’t to say there won’t be more upside for major crypto assets here soon. It’s certainly possible, if not likely,"" he wrote, adding that the emergence of China from its Covid lockdowns, could affect inflation in the months ahead.
""There’s just too much uncertainty for a full-blown market breakout for crypto assets and equities that are further along the risk curve,” he wrote.
By Sam Reynolds
The South Korean city of Busan seems hell-bent on being a blockchain hub. But will anyone care about its government enterprise blockchain initiatives and quest to build the first city-run crypto exchange?
Part of Busan’s status as the ""center of a global digital information ecosystem,"" as government literature describes it, is to integrate blockchain technology into all facets of government service. That means, according to The Korea Herald, that blockchain will be the technology that powers the city’s blockchain-based ID service called B-Pass, B-Fresh, its seafood logistics service, B-Tour, a tour platform, to name a few.
The problem is this initiative represents yesterday’s thinking on blockchain. Others have tried integrating permissioned enterprise blockchain into digital infrastructure, and it has failed. A few weeks ago, CoinDesk reported that two major enterprise blockchain projects were ending: Shipping giant Maersk and IBM abandoned TradeLens, a blockchain solution for optimizing supply chains, while the Australian Stock Exchange said it was abandoning a blockchain-powered clearing and settlement system because of a poor cost-benefit ratio.
“It’s a Web2 business model, but a little bit of Web3 pixie dust sprinkled on. And once the pixie dust kind of wears off, the value proposition doesn’t look so hot,” Paul Brody, head of blockchain at global consulting giant Ernst & Young, told CoinDesk in a previous article.
This is on top of IBM’s blockchain team being effectively wound down in early 2021, and Microsoft discontinuing its Azure cloud services for blockchain a few months later.
It isn’t exactly clear how the powers that be in Busan will do anything differently that could change the equation on enterprise blockchain. It’s probably that they can’t.
The reason why there hasn’t been a success story in this field is that the technology itself is slow compared to other database platforms.
“The problem was the cost in computing power to implement. Blockchain technology is slow and requires a great deal more computer power. Blockchain is the Model T of distributed ledger technology. They are amazing but now dated,” explained Burke Files, a consultant, when asked about why the U.S. Food and Drug Administration isn’t implementing blockchain technology as it once claimed.
Busan’s other blockchain venture is the creation of a government-run crypto exchange. In a recent announcement from the city, authorities said that the project had some setbacks, but its still on track for a launch next year.
Setbacks indeed. FTX was an early contractor on the project, but that’s obviously not going to work now that the exchange has collapsed and the former CEO has been arrested.
Binance and Huobi are also involved, but there’s been little to show for what should be a very simple project.
Even if it's built, will anyone want to use it? There will certainly be benefits for traders when it comes to Korean won on-ramps and expedited know-your-customer procedures. But will people be comfortable trading on a government-run platform? It’s a fiat exchange, and many will no doubt find it antithetical to Satoshi’s vision for crypto.
Busan might also be opening itself to some major headaches via liabilities.
What if the exchange is hacked? Or what if a listed token is the victim of a rug pull? When dealing with offshore exchanges this can add a level of complexity, but serving the city of Busan with a legal notice will be a lot easier for a Korean lawyer then tracking down an exchange that’s registered in Seychelles but has no central office.
Of course, the whole thing could be a Potemkin Village designed to look like busy work and extract dollars from tax payers. When CoinDesk visited the Busan blockchain center in August, it was just a co-working space with a handful of people. Hardly indicative of the makings of a global technology hub.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Great Britain Consumer Price Index (YoY/Nov)
3:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(19:00 UTC) United States Fed Interest Rate Decision
5:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(21:45 UTC) New Zealand Gross Domestic Product (YoY/Q3)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Sam Bankman-Fried Arrested in the Bahamas, SEC Charges Former FTX CEO With Defrauding Investors
As the world watches, major events impacting crypto are unfolding simultaneously. Congressional hearings on the collapse of FTX began just hours after Sam Bankman-Fried was arrested in the Bahamas. New U.S. economic data showed the consumer price index (CPI) rose at a 7.1% annual pace in November, which was down from October, a sign that inflation is cooling. Crypto markets have reacted positively. ""First Mover"" guests included Kennyhertz Perry partner Braden Perry, Defiance ETFs co-founder and CEO Sylvia Jablonski and whistleblower and Nym security consultant Chelsea Manning.
FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried Denied Bail in the Bahamas: Bankman-Fried was arrested Monday.
With Founder Facing Charges, New CEO Says FTX Embezzled Customer Cash: Sam Bankman-Fried is now a criminal defendant, and CEO John Ray III told lawmakers FTX embezzled customer funds ""right in front of their eyes.""
Crypto Market’s Near-Apocalypse in 2022 Turns Zombie Tokens Into Dead Coins: The number of cryptocurrencies has dropped by about 1,000 since February, the biggest-ever decline, according to Statista. Often tokens are removed from pricing sites like CoinGecko because they're no longer trading – even if they still technically exist on the blockchain.
Binance's CZ Welcomes 'Stress Test' as Exchange Resumes USDC Withdrawals: The world's largest crypto exchange by trading volume has endured a wave a withdrawals amid concerns about reserves. Withdrawals of the stablecoin USDC were paused for several hours but have now resumed.
Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Discount Reaches Record 50%: The shares have not traded at a premium to bitcoin since last March."
523,688,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/12/14/binance-founder-cz-insists-we-can-trust-his-crypto-exchange-but-can-we/,Binance Founder ‘CZ’ Insists We Can Trust His Crypto Exchange – but Can We?,"After the arrest of FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, some users fear that exchange behemoth Binance will be the next crypto domino to fall.",2022-12-14,"Monday’s arrest of Sam Bankman-Fried (“SBF”) capped off a historic period in the world of memes, money and mayhem that is the cryptocurrency industry. The arrest of the FTX exchange founder drew mainstream headlines that greatly overshadowed the other big crypto story of the day: questions around the solvency of Binance, the largest cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume.
If the collapse of FTX was catastrophic for the burgeoning crypto industry, a collapse of Binance would be apocalyptic.
This article originally appeared in Valid Points, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter breaking down Ethereum’s evolution and its impact on crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
FTX – at one point the third-largest crypto exchange by spot volume – processed around $37 billion in spot trades in October, the month before it collapsed, according to CryptoCompare. The second-largest exchange, Coinbase, processed $47 billion that month. Meanwhile, Binance’s spot trading volume in October totaled a whopping $390 billion.
For over a month, Binance CEO Chanpeng Zhao (“CZ”), like other exchange leaders, has been on a quest to convince users that his product is wholly different from FTX – the SBF-led exchange that became insolvent after misusing user funds.
Like FTX, though, Binance is largely unregulated, and not everyone is buying CZ’s repeated assurances of propriety. Over the past week, a shoddy audit of the exchange’s reserves – followed by news of criminal investigations into Binance executives – alarmed users enough to catalyze record withdrawals from the platform.
While Binance appears to be weathering the storm so far (there are no glaring signs that the exchange has misappropriated user funds FTX-style), recent events have drawn attention to the fact that Binance, which exists beyond the scope of regulators and tracks customer holdings on its own servers rather than on public blockchains, asks for a tremendous amount of trust from its users in order to operate. In the “trustless” world of cryptocurrency, this is a bit hard to square.
The biggest players in crypto are centralized exchanges – platforms like FTX, Coinbase, Kraken and Binance – that take direct custody of user cryptocurrency (rather than leave tokens in a user’s own blockchain wallet) in order to facilitate trades.
After investors were burned by FTX – the largest crypto exchange to collapse after abusing the trust of its depositors – people have grown wary of trusting other, similarly centralized platforms. But not all cryptocurrency exchanges that custody user funds have earned the same degree of skepticism.
Unlike U.S.-regulated exchanges like Coinbase and Kraken, Binance (like FTX) operates in a sort of regulatory gray area. The firm was originally founded in China but left the country in 2017 just before its government banned cryptocurrency trading. Today, Binance deliberately obfuscates where it is headquartered.
While there are jurisdiction-specific versions of Binance, like Binance.US, which operate independently from the main Binance platform, the main, largely unregulated version of Binance is the biggest by far. (Binance.US doesn’t even rank among the top 10 crypto exchanges by spot trading volume.)
Coinbase, Kraken, Binance.US and other jurisdiction-specific Binance platforms make routine accounting disclosures and face strict oversight from regulators. The main Binance platform, however, isn’t subject to the same regulatory scrutiny as its peers. As such, it can offer relatively low fees along with products that it would be unable to run in the U.S. and many other countries – like sophisticated derivative contracts and margin trading facilities that allow users to borrow money in order to make bigger, riskier bets.
As a consequence of Binance’s regulation dodging, though, the platform’s users need to trust Binance’s word on whether their money is where it purports to be.
Fears of a Binance insolvency reached a fever pitch over the weekend after a much-derided “proof-of-reserves” report from the exchange failed to convince onlookers that it was fully collateralizing assets behind the scenes.
Widespread skepticism towards the report – which users criticized for its lack of thoroughness and selective disclosures – sparked record outflows from Binance, with investors pulling nearly a billion dollars from the exchange in a period of just 24 hours over the weekend.
Money continued to pour out of the exchange on Monday after a report from Reuters detailed a U.S. Department of Justice investigation into Binance – one of several ongoing probes into the firm from global law enforcement agencies. According to Reuters, federal prosecutors are weighing whether to charge Binance executives, including CZ, with money-laundering violations.
News of Binance’s legal troubles opened the floodgates even wider; users were soon criticizing Binance for everything from its ability to change the ledger of its “decentralized” BNB blockchain, to the solvency of “bridged” versions of BUSD, Binance’s stablecoin.
“Binance FUD” (meaning fear, uncertainty and doubt) briefly trended on Twitter.
On Monday, Binance saw another $2 billion in net withdrawals from its platform – the largest withdrawal event for the exchange since this past June, according to crypto analytics firm Nansen.
The outflows were large enough to force Binance to temporarily pause withdrawals of USDC, the second-largest stablecoin – a vital instrument in crypto financial markets that stays “pegged” to the price of one dollar.
Binance said it needed to pause USDC withdrawals in order to facilitate a “token swap” of USDC stablecoins for its own BUSD stablecoins – a sort of practical measure necessary to loosen up liquidity for further withdrawals.
However, the move sparked worrying headlines, including one from CNBC, reflecting that some users saw the pause as yet another signal that Binance might not be fully collateralizing user assets behind the scenes. (Notably, pausing stablecoin withdrawals was one of the last actions FTX took before filing for bankruptcy.)
Despite the uproar, Binance’s explanation for why it paused USDC withdrawals is plausible on its face. Moreover, Nansen’s accounting of Binance-linked blockchain wallets shows that the exchange has at least $60 billion in on-chain reserves – more than enough liquidity to handle customer withdrawal demands and vastly more than FTX had (as a percentage of overall user assets) when it collapsed.
But without a full accounting of Binance’s assets and liabilities, the exchange’s health is impossible to judge definitively.
Despite Binance’s opaqueness, users continue to rely on the platform.
The largest crypto exchange offers users the ability to trade more kinds of tokens, with higher liquidity and lower fees, than virtually any other platform – centralized or decentralized. It also offers strategies that are inaccessible, in many jurisdictions, to anyone other than licensed investors.
But the fact that Binance is the only shop in town for certain trading activities isn’t the only reason why some investors continue to trust CZ with their money.
Wave Financial CEO David Siemer told CoinDesk that while he is wary of all centralized exchange platforms, he is relatively unconcerned that Binance will face FTX-type insolvency.
For one thing, says Siemer, Binance was founded in 2017 and simply has a longer track record than FTX, which was founded in 2019.
Siemer also noted that Binance has been relatively conservative in terms of the features it offers users – at least compared to FTX. “From a functionality standpoint,” said Siemer, “Binance rolls things out that are pretty tried and true.”
FTX, says Siemer, partially failed because it advertised a high-tech – but error-prone – cross-margining system. In essence, the system was supposed to allow a user to take multiple separate positions against a single pool of collateral; if one of a user’s bets went bust, the whole pool was subject to liquidation (meaning the FTX exchange would have automatically claimed the user’s collateral).
In Siemer’s experience, this system didn’t always work as advertised; users were sometimes able to make big bets that weren’t auto-liquidated when they should’ve been – meaning investors might have lost the exchange’s (and, it seems, other users’) money on bets that they should’ve lost.
Unlike FTX, Binance “[doesn’t] allow a lot of crazy, weird margining” features like cross-margining, said Siemer.
And then, says Siemer, there’s the fact that Binance “doesn't have an Alameda.” Alameda Research was the SBF-linked trading firm that collapsed after it apparently invested (and lost) funds belonging to FTX users.
“Because [FTX] had Alameda,” said Siemer, “both sides were able to just kind of prop each other up for a long, long time.”
While it’s technically possible that Binance is using or loaning out user funds behind the scenes (the firm is apparently under investigation for money laundering), there’s no sister firm like Alameda to which Binance would have obviously funneled money.
While one can find some differences between Binance and FTX, it’s impossible to know what’s really going on at Binance behind the scenes. CZ, for his part, seems acutely aware of the fact that his exchange will live or die based on the trust of its users.
Amid all the “FUD,” the Binance founder – at one point more of a behind-the-scenes operator – has become uncharacteristically active on social media in recent months as the market has soured and the FTX debacle has continued to unfold.
In between tweets defending Binance, CZ has also found time to joke around with his followers, and he recently retweeted a tweet from 2019 in which he explained that he was “a normal guy, nothing fancy” and aimed to “seek and provide positive energy.”
In this way, one finds a striking similarity between CZ and SBF, his one-time nemesis. Both founders realize that in a world of centralization and lax regulations – perception is everything."
524,451,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/14/ftx-bankruptcy-court-warned-against-granting-bahamas-dangerous-it-access/,FTX Bankruptcy Court Is Warned Against Granting Bahamas 'Dangerous' IT Access,"Testimony from new boss John Ray has proven inflammatory in the Bahamas, where parallel proceedings are also attempting to wind up the crypto exchange.",2022-12-14,"A dispute over access to FTX’s computer systems deepened Wednesday, with Judge John Dorsey of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware attempting to smooth the waters on rival claims from the U.S. and the Bahamas.
Giving access to FTX's platform would let funds slip away to an untrustworthy Bahamas government, while inflammatory congressional testimony from new CEO John Ray III risked taking the case “off the rails,” the court was told by the two opposing parties.
The hearing occurred the day after FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was denied bail in a Bahamas courtroom after being arrested at the U.S.’ request. The exchange filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. on Nov. 11, and was liquidated in the Bahamas shortly after.
“This is dangerous information,” James Bromley, representing Ray's FTX, said of a demand from Bahamas-based joint provisional liquidators (JPL) to be given access to the Amazon and Google cloud services that underpinned the exchange.
Read more: FTX CEO Warned Not to ‘Obstruct’ Bahamas Probe as He Gives Testimony
“We do not trust the Bahamian government and … we simply don't trust that the JPLs will be able to hold this information and not provide it to the Bahamian government,” he added. “The Securities Commission of the Bahamas has already collaborated with the JPLs to obtain access to digital assets and to mint tokens.”
Bromley is worried that access to the platform will enable cryptocurrency to be transferred out of U.S. control. He has previously submitted as evidence a Nov. 10 email between Bankman-Fried and Bahamas Attorney General Ryan Pinder that suggested local users of the site would be given preferential access to assets.
Meanwhile, Brian Simms and other provisional liquidators in the Bahamas say they need to be able to review records so they can identify company assets and maintain value, warning that some crucial data could be auto-deleted if there are overlong delays.
“I've seen a lot of mega-cases go off the rails,” Simms’ lawyer Chris Shore told the court, also warning of high legal costs from a protracted dispute.
Read more: FTX's Bahamas Liquidators Seek to Exclude Over $200M Worth of Luxury Properties From Liquidation
Given allegations “that a foreign government has colluded with somebody who is jailed right now … we’re at least tilting on the rails,” Shore said, in an apparent reference to congressional testimony given Tuesday by Ray about relations between Bankman-Fried and Bahamian authorities.
Judge Dorsey attempted to calm what he called a “heated debate,” and clearly hopes to find a solution that will let Simms get on with his job. Compromises were discussed such as offering a clone of the database, granting static access to information or setting legal limits on how Simms can use the data.
In a Tuesday statement, the Bahamas Securities Commission also hit out at Ray, accusing him of “misstatements” and of confusing Bahamian organizations that Shore noted are as distinct as Ray himself is from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Simms is also seeking access to employee Slack and email records and the off-the-shelf accounting software QuickBooks. Such platforms may have been used for substantive decision-making and governance at the multi-billion-dollar company, to Ray’s apparent surprise.
Founder Sam Bankman-Fried has previously complained that his lack of access to personal and professional data from his time at the company means he can’t give a full account of FTX’s collapse. He now faces not just media interest and congressional hearings but a series of charges brought by the Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission and commodities regulator the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Dorsey will consider the case further on Friday and possibly at an additional Jan. 6 hearing, should mediation fail.
Read more: The FTX Downfall: Full Coverage"
525,634,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/14/ether-bitcoin-post-gains-as-crypto-market-cheers-sam-bankman-frieds-arrest-inflation-data/,"Ether, Bitcoin Post Gains as Crypto Market Cheers Sam Bankman-Fried's Arrest, Inflation Data","With the former FTX CEO's arrest, the crypto market has now shifted its focus to improving macroeconomic conditions, analysts said.",2022-12-14,"The arrest of Sam Bankman-Fried in the Bahamas and the subsequent unsealing of a U.S. indictment against the former FTX CEO has seemingly calmed the market, with ether (ETH) and bitcoin (BTC) both posting modest gains during the Asian trading hours.
Ether posted on-day gains of 4.46%, according to CoinDesk market data, coming in at $1,332 by late afternoon Asia time. Bitcoin gained 3.7%, hitting $17,805.
Bitcoin recently hit a one-month high earlier this week ahead of U.S. inflation data, and its dominance has cracked 41%, CoinDesk previously reported. Digital assets are generally rising as traders expect the Federal Reserve to slow down its inflation-fighting interest rate hikes.
""This is the main trigger in the increase in prices,"" Raphael Kim, the founder of Seoul-based crypto VC Reframe, told CoinDesk. Kim said the lower-than-expected data in the CPI was a relief to many traders, who are building a post-FTX investment narrative.
Many other tokens on the CoinDesk 20 were up during the Asia afternoon trading session, in particular those associated with layer 1 tokens including Avalanche (AVAX0, up 7.3% to $13.69, Solana (SOL) up 7% to $13.94, and Cosmos (ATOM) up 6.9% to $9.92.
Data from CoinGlass shows that traders who held short positions have faced immense liquidation pressure over the last 24 hours. In total, $119.51 million in positions have been liquidated, with 83% of them being shorts.
Meanwhile, Binance’s exchange token, BNB, is up 4% to $274.
Nansen data shows that the netflow to the exchange flipped positive during the last 24 hours to $715 million. During the Tuesday trading day outflow hit nearly $2 billion over regulatory concerns and news that the exchange was temporarily suspending USDC withdrawals.
Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao, Binance founder and CEO, tweeted that he welcomes the “stress test” and suggested that all centralized exchanges should have similar regular tests. While the exchange doesn’t appear to have a liquidity problem at this time, CZ has warned staff to expect “turbulent times” ahead.
Data from Nansen shows that Binance currently has reserves of $57.4 billion. OKX, the next exchange on the list, has reserves of $6.7 billion, while Crypto.com, in third, has reserves of $3.4 billion."
526,192,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/15/cryptoquant-on-chain-data-shows-crypto-exchange-binance-isnt-exhibiting-ftx-like-behavior/,CryptoQuant: On-Chain Data Shows Crypto Exchange Binance Isn't Exhibiting ‘FTX-Like’ Behavior,The analytics firm found the exchange is almost entirely collateralized and diversified away from its proprietary token.,2022-12-15,"Binance, the largest crypto exchange by volume traded, is not the next FTX, according a report from CryptoQuant.
The Seoul-based analytics firm points to on-chain data to support claims made in a recent audit that Binance is overcollateralized.
“At the time Binance’s Proof of Reserves report was conducted, CryptoQuant’s estimate of Binance’s BTC reserves (liabilities) was 591,939 BTC. This compares to the PoR report’s Customer Liability Report Balance of 597,602 BTC. We can see that CryptoQuant data covered 99% of Binance's liabilities,” CryptoQuant wrote, using the ticker symbol for bitcoin. Collateralization is 101% when taking the exchange's assets and debtors into account, it said.
Binance is not experiencing the same volume of outflows that FTX had in the days before its collapse, CryptoQuant wrote, citing on-chain data. While withdrawals have increased, they are small compared with the exchange’s overall reserves. In a tweet, Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao said he “welcomes the stress test.”
Binance’s bitcoin reserves are up 4% since FTX's collapse, CryptoQuant wrote. Reserves for ether and stablecoins are down 6% and 15%, respectively.
CryptoQuant points out that Binance differs from FTX-Alameda in how ""clean"" the reserves are, or, to put it another way, how they're not reliant on the exchange’s proprietary token, BNB. A CoinDesk report that showed FTX sister company Alameda Research was materially backed by the exchange's FTT token kicked off a liquidity crisis that ultimately led to its bankruptcy.
For Binance, CryptoQuant says 88.95% of its reserves are clean. That compares with 56% for Huobi, 66.5% for Bitfinex, 81.64% for Kucoin, 97% for Crypto.com and 100% for OKX.
Data from Nansen pegs Binance’s total reserves at $57.4 billion versus $3.04 billion for Huobi, $2.47 billion for Kucoin, $3.36 billion for Crypto.com, and $6.67 billion for OKX. Nansen doesn’t have data for Bitfinex.
CryptoQuant says that Binance’s level of clean reserve is “acceptable.”
While there have been some questions about the financial health of Binance, Hochan Chung, CryptoQuant’s head of marketing, points to the availability of on-chain data to corroborate all claims, even if you don’t trust the exchange’s published report.
“Proof of reserve provides a real-time, transparent, and non-manufactured data, which is the first-time ever in the history of the financial market. The data is self-audited through blockchain technology,” he said in a Telegram message.
What on-chain data can’t account for is corporate control. FTX was known for lavish spending on employee perks, such as luxury apartments for staff, a generous DoorDash allowance for food delivery, and a chartered aircraft to fly Amazon deliveries to the Bahamas from the U.S.
""Never in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred here,"" FTX’s new CEO, John J. Ray III, who was also involved in cleaning up Enron’s mess, said in a court document. ""From compromised systems integrity and faulty regulatory oversight abroad, to the concentration of control in the hands of a very small group of inexperienced, unsophisticated and potentially compromised individuals, this situation is unprecedented.""
Hal Schroeder, a former Financial Accounting Standards Board member and Rutgers University professor, told the Wall Street Journal that the audit Binance presented doesn’t comment on the quality of Binance’s internal controls.
“In light of what we’ve seen in the Bahamas, I don’t want to conclude that all the systems are that good,” he said.
Binance Chief Strategy Officer Patrick Hillmann recently tweeted corporate travel at company is more austere than at FTX.
“Binance literally booked me at a Citadines ($83 a night) the last time I traveled to our Paris office. Sign of a company founded during a bear cycle. No mansions, but I have a fun job without fear of the company being mismanaged,” he said.
Binance's BNB token has dropped almost 3% in the last 24 hours, CoinDesk data shows, to $265."
527,1041,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/15/first-mover-asia-bitcoins-strong-correlation-to-dr-copper-grows-healthier-bitcoin-seesaws-back-to-178k/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin’s Strong Correlation to 'Dr. Copper' Grows Healthier; Bitcoin Seesaws Back to $17.8K,"Over the past week, the connection between the red metal and cryptocurrency has grown tighter, which bodes well for long-term investors. But a strengthening U.S. dollar may suggest a less rosy future.",2022-12-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin rose early but later fell after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell damped enthusiasm stemming from a less-aggressive rate hike with hawkish comments.
Insights: Is Dr. Copper's recent upturn a positive sign for bitcoin?
Bitcoin Seesaws but Holds at $17.8K
By James Rubin
Bitcoin looked primed to continue its momentum this week before U.S. central bank Chair Jerome Powell damped investors' mood with a pointed reminder that the Fed was not finished with its monetary hawkishness even after lowering its latest interest rate hike to 50 basis points.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at $17,811, roughly where it stood 24 hours earlier. BTC had topped $18,300 earlier in the day following an unexpected slowing in November's inflation data and the Fed's anticipated dovish turn. But in a press conference following the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) rate announcement, Powell returned to a months-long theme that rising prices presented the biggest threat to the economy.
“50 basis points is still a historically large increase and we still have some ways to go,” Powell said at a press conference following the FOMC statement.
Ether followed a similar pattern, rising earlier in the day before dropping to trade at $1,308, down about a percentage point from Tuesday, same time. Most other major cryptocurrencies were in the red, albeit not by much with UNI, the token of decentralized exchange Uniswap, and LINK, the token of software platform Chainlink, falling 3.2% and 3.1%, respectively.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, recently sank 0.33%.
Equity indexes troubled by Powell's comments closed down with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 off 0.8% and 0.5%, respectively. Tuesday's consumer price index fell to 7.1%, lower than the 7.3% projected by economists responding to a FactSet survey.
The Fed's latest rate increase the federal funds target range to 4.25%-4.5%, the highest level in 15 years. Powell has signaled that the terminal rate – the peak rate for the current hiking cycle, expected sometime next year – will likely be over 5%. The federal funds rate is the interest rate that banks charge each other to borrow and lend money.
Meanwhile, U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Roger Marshall (R-Kan.) are introducing a bill to crack down on money laundering and financing of terrorists and rogue nations via cryptocurrency. The Digital Asset Anti-Money Laundering Act would bring know-your-customer (KYC) rules to crypto participants such as wallet providers and miners and prohibit financial institutions from transacting with digital asset mixers, which are tools designed to obscure the origin of funds.
Edward Moya, senior market analyst at foreign exchange market maker Oanda, noted in an email that the current Congress, which is in its final weeks, is unlikely to pass the legislation, but that ""the Act would address some national security concerns as it requires crypto firms to play by the same rules that apply to banks and traditional firms.""
'Dr. Copper' Offers Encouragement for Bitcoin Investors
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Bitcoin’s correlation with copper, which moved into positive territory following the Thanksgiving holiday, has continued to rise.
The increase is significant, given copper’s traditional link to economic health. Analysts often view copper as a proxy for growth, affectionately calling it “Dr. Copper” for its professorial ability to forecast trends. So copper doing well bodes well for the economy, which bodes well for bitcoin.
Markets have been looking favorably upon copper, with the price of its futures contract increasing 8% over the last three weeks. If historic relationships hold true, this trend would imply market confidence about U.S. economic prospects.
By contrast, bitcoin (BTC) has maintained a strong negative correlation with the U.S. Dollar index (DXY). Investors will be watching this index in the weeks ahead, particularly after the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) trimmed its interest rate hike to 50 basis points on Wednesday from its previous, more aggressive 75 bps increases.
Still, Fed Chair Jerome Powell was unexpectedly hawkish in his comments following the rate announcement, reiterating long-held concerns about inflation.
Will bitcoin follow Dr. Copper’s prescription or follow the lead of the U.S. Dollar Index? The upcoming weeks will be interesting to watch.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(00:30 UTC) Australia Unemployment Rate s.a. (Nov)
10:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(2:00 UTC) China Retail Sales (YoY/Nov)
9:15 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:15 UTC) European Central Bank Monetary Policy Decision Statement
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried Denied Bail; Bitcoin Rising Ahead of Key Fed Decision
While Sam Bankman-Fried is remanded into custody after a Bahamas judge ruled he should be denied bail, the U.S. Senate Banking Committee had its turn probing witnesses about the FTX collapse. Rep. Ritchie Torres (D-N.Y.) joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the latest developments and his recent legislation targeting crypto exchanges. Also, Matt Stoller of the American Economic Liberties Project joined. Plus, 3IQ's Mark Connors shared his crypto markets outlook ahead of today's much anticipated Federal Reserve decision on interest rates.
Binance CEO Changpeng 'CZ' Zhao Warns Staff of Turbulent Times: ""While we expect the next several months to be bumpy, we will get past this challenging period,"" CZ said while assuring the organization is built to last.
Citi Says Crypto Market Leverage, Open Interest Are Historically Low: The bank expects a broader focus on decentralization in 2023 following this year’s failings in centralized crypto ventures.
Indian Crypto Traffic Took a Nosedive as Tax Regime Tightened: The government's two taxes have cut usage of Indian crypto platforms, although interest in Binance has remained steady because that exchange is out of the country's jurisdiction.
US Senators Warren, Marshall Introduce Digital Assets Anti-Money Laundering Bill: The proposal will bring know-your-customer rules to crypto participants such as wallet providers and miners.
FTX Hearing in US Senate Reveals Congress Doesn’t Have Immediate Answers: As the crypto industry’s epic disaster continues to unfold with a criminal case and regulatory actions, U.S. senators didn’t find any clear path during a Wednesday hearing."
528,694,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/15/first-mover-asia-active-crypto-developers-decreased-nearly-60-in-2022/,First Mover Asia: Active Crypto Developers Decreased Nearly 60% in 2022,"Despite the decline over the past year, about 1,600 developers are still active in building the top blockchains and decentralized applications during this bear market.",2022-12-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and the CoinDesk Market Index turned lower as traders started to rethink the takeaway from this week's Federal Reserve meeting.
Insights: Ethereum had 192 active developers on Dec. 14, the highest number of developers among blockchain projects, data from Token Terminal suggests.
Crypto sentiment makes quick reversal
By Bradley Keoun
If Wednesday's Federal Reserve meeting brought a buoyant mood to crypto markets, Thursday's action brought a reality check.
Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market value was down 2.6% over the past 24 hours, to about $17,400, tracking a similar trajectory in U.S. stocks.
Ether (ETH), the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain and the second-biggest overall, lost 3.6%, to $1,262. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) slid 2.4%. Optimism's OP token ranked among the biggest losers with a 10% decline.
The take of CoinDesk markets analyst Glenn Williams Jr. was that the Federal Reserve, while slowing the pace of interest-rate increases, still has a long way to go before it can end its campaign to wring out inflation. Before price rises can moderate, the Fed will have to see a pretty significant increase in unemployment – to keep expectations of higher wages from becoming entrenched. Hopes of a quick reversal by the Fed Chair Jerome Powell and his colleagues might be premature. Funding rates – a key barometer of sentiment in crypto derivatives markets – are still pointing negative.
By Sage D. Young
The number of daily active developers working on top blockchains and decentralized applications (dapps) has decreased roughly 57% this year, according to financial data platform Token Terminal.
In January, about 3,700 daily developers were active, compared to almost 1,600 on Dec. 14, data from Token Terminal suggests, which tracks daily totals.
The decline has come as ether, the token of the Ethereum blockchain, and other cryptocurrencies have plummeted from record highs little more than a year ago. ETH was recently trading at about $1,300, down 64% from the start of the year when the second largest crypto by market capitalization was still hovering near $4,000. The number of projects built on the Ethereum platform over this period has plummeted as some projects have failed and increasingly risk averse investors have deployed their money at a slower rate than during 2021’s bull market.
“It’s not surprising to see an overall decline in daily active devs,” said Chris Eberle, angel investor and contributor at Coordinape and PleasrDAO who goes by DeFi Ginger on Twitter. “2022 has been punch after punch for crypto. The impact to the market and the overall brand of crypto is just brutal.”
Eberle noted that this year’s crypto debacles, including the recent collapse of crypto exchange giant FTX and failing of centralized lender Celsius Network, have created “one, big ball of pain” for the industry that has also contributed to the decline in active developers.
With 192 developers as of Dec. 14, Ethereum currently has the most daily developers among blockchain protocols and dapps. Cardano and Cosmos rank second and third with 144 and 143 active developers, respectively. Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, currently has 18 active developers.
According to Token Terminal, Solana saw the largest reduction from roughly 2,500 devs in January to 75 developers at the time of publication, although the protocol insisted in a tweet last month that thousands of developers are working on the platform. “Something doesn’t add up, Eberle said. ""Solana fell off a cliff before [the FTX collapse].”
He added: ”Others seem to have some dip but it could well be seasonal as we’re in the holiday zone now.”
Token Terminal’s methodology to determine an “active developer” is based on the “number of distinct GitHub users that made 1+ commits to the project’s GitHub repositories during the past 30 days.”
Overall, the number of the active developers in the crypto space has stabilized between 1,500 and 1,600 since mid summer, suggesting that a core of the determined, adequately funded people remain convinced of blockchain technology’s potential.
4:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(8:30 UTC) Germany S&P Global/BME Composite PMI (Dec)
5:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(9:00 UTC) Eurozone S&P Global Composite PMI (Dec)
5:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(9:30 UTC) Great Britain S&P Global/CIPS Services PMI (Dec)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Top FTX Group Exec Tipped Off Authorities Prior to Bankruptcy Filing; Charges Pile Up Against Sam Bankman-Fried
As he sits in jail in the Bahamas, FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried finds himself facing a litany of both criminal and civil charges. Renato Mariotti of Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner, a former federal prosecutor, explained the charges as ""First Mover"" explored what happens next in the increasingly complicated case. Octavio Marenzi of management consultancy Opimas shared his crypto markets analysis and outlook for 2023. Plus, Maple Finance CEO Sid Powell discussed the platform's overhaul and future of crypto lending.
Protocol Developer Archblock Aims to Bring US Community Banks to DeFi Through Partnership: Archblock and Adapt3r's joint effort highlights an accelerating trend in decentralized finance to cozy up with old-school banking.
CryptoQuant: On-Chain Data Shows Crypto Exchange Binance Isn't Exhibiting ‘FTX-Like’ Behavior: The analytics firm found the exchange is almost entirely collateralized and diversified away from its proprietary token.
Ethereum Name Service DAO Votes on Stewards for Three Working Groups: The stewards will be responsible for the Meta-Governance, ENS ecosystem, and the Public Goods working groups for 2023.
Crypto Trading Firm Wintermute Given Seat on Key FTX Creditor Committee: The crypto firms and individual investors will play a key role in representing the issues of the million or so potentially owed money by Sam Bankman-Fried’s company
The Next Step in the Evolution of Web3: Regenerative Finance: “ReFi,” coined by economist John Fullerton, is the process of using markets to fix the issues markets have created. Crypto, the freest market system yet, can help bootstrap efforts to regenerate the world economy.
Web3 Domain Provider Unstoppable Domains to Integrate With Etherscan and Polygonscan: The integration will make it easier to trace domain addresses on the two blockchain explorers."
529,424,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/12/16/ftx-and-crypto-bust-show-capitalisms-limits/,FTX and Crypto Bust Show Capitalism’s Limits,"Investors have been led astray by misleading signals from the market. It enticed them to go ""all in"" on centralized exchanges rather than focusing on real-world use cases for tokenized value exchange.",2022-12-16,"Capitalism failed crypto. Or perhaps they failed each other.
No, I’m not trying to exonerate Sam Bankman-Fried and all those who have abused people’s trust and destroyed faith in this industry.
And, no, I’m not a Communist. I am as strong a believer as any reasonable reader of history that market economies do a far better job of allocating capital than centrally planned ones.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
I just want to acknowledge that capitalism doesn’t always deliver desired results. For its “invisible hand” to work, the market needs to be open and competitive. For the reliable, constantly adjusting price signals that economic actors need to form well-reasoned investment decisions, there must be sufficient information about the factors behind the demand and supply conditions determining those prices.
Until 2022 and, most importantly, until the collapse of FTX exposed a gaping difference between image and reality, such transparency did not exist, not at the level required for the crypto industry to enjoy trustworthy price signals.
I’m not just talking about FTX’s mind-boggling accounting practices (or lack thereof). I’m referring to what we knew, or didn’t, about the conditions driving the soaring token prices that attracted millions of retail customers into multiple crypto exchanges and lending platforms, inflows that spun up billions of dollars in fees and, by extension, attracted great gobs of venture funding to those companies.
We’re all astounded that FTX, now essentially worth nothing, was valued at $32 billion a few months ago, and that lending service Celsius Network clocked in at $3.5 billion before it went under. But we should be asking similar questions about the investments and deposits that poured into Binance, Coinbase, Kraken, Crypto.com and other such exchanges. I’m not suggesting that they too are on the verge of bankruptcy or are suspected of fraud, rather that we should reflect on the inflated expectations for long-term growth that drew the influx into the entire industry.
Investors fell for a kind of capitalism head fake. For a time, the spectacular outsized profits generated by these centralized rent-extracting machines suggested to venture capitalists that they were the businesses into which they should be investing. According to the rationale of the market, they were onto something. The market was saying “this is the future.”
Tragically, we now know this was a false signal. There was no there there. A good chunk of the token exchange and lending business was built on a house of cards, an elaborate interconnection of leveraged positions across a crypto ecosystem sustained by a collective belief in “number go up.” It was really just a toxic mix of momentum trading, opportunism and rehypothecation (allowing assets to collateralize several transactions). It was never sustainable.
We should have recognized from the start that the triple-digit yields offered on various decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms during boom periods in 2021 were unjustified, not just because they were insanely high relative to traditional finance but also because there was insufficient real-world utility underpinning them. The same could be said for the trading activity and fees earned by centralized finance (CeFi) platforms.
For there to have been enough base-level utility to sustain the trading prices higher up the chain, there needed to be a lot more investment in underlying real-world use cases for tokenized value exchange, such as in decentralized energy. But the market wasn’t signaling that that’s where the money should go. It was saying “go all in” on FTX, Celsius and their ilk.
Read more: Need a Use Case for Decentralization? Start With Energy
How do we fix this?
Sadly, we can’t just exhort people to reject get-rich-quick promises in favor of smaller, more sustainable opportunities in cross-border remittances, non-fungible token (NFT) loyalty projects, distributed digital identity solutions or any number of other real-world applications. Speculators are gonna speculate.
What we need is more reliable information about crypto businesses and industries, not just data on the short-term profitability of exchanges and lenders but in-depth details on the underlying foundation of those returns and their long-term sustainability.
Perhaps with that information, venture investors will ignore short-term opportunities associated with speculation and instead invest in real, longer-term projects.
But there’s still a problem here and it lies with Silicon Valley. Given that token models now offer venture capitalists the prospects of a much earlier exit than the five-year liquidity lockups they’re traditionally subjected to, they may still be incentivized to ignore indications of long-term challenges and continue to bet on short-term bubble moments, knowing they can always pass their bags to the next greater fool. They can do this because they get early access to exclusive “data rooms” during funding round deals, giving them an informational advantage over later-arriving small investors.
This is the “information asymmetry” problem that securities laws are supposed to guard against. We can think about it in terms of the parties in any later-stage funding round: the investable entity itself, which knows everything; its early investors, who know a lot but not everything; and the prospective targeted investors, who are much more in the dark. These kinds of asymmetries are one of the fundamental causes of price signal distortions. Forced disclosures by securities regulations narrow that information gap.
It should be obvious by now that for CeFi exchanges such as FTX, tougher regulation, including registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, is unavoidable. The question is how far should such regulation go?
Despite everything, a strong argument remains that excessive regulation – for example, the draconian bill introduced this week by Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Roger Marshall (R-Kan.) – could easily backfire by killing innovation. There are especially big risks if securities laws are unreasonably targeted at the software developers of DeFi projects for which there is no identifiable centralized authority.
Read more: How Crypto Can Repair Its Reputation in Washington
This is where industry needs to come to its own rescue. It’s time to call on leaders in this space who truly want the technology to foster a growing, sustainable economy of real-world value to align with each other on  standards to increase transparency.
Whether it’s a universally accepted approach to proof of reserves, ratings agencies that use on-chain and other records to assess the risks of different assets or protocols, or common standards for software audits and bug bounties, there is much that the members of this community can do to incentivize mutually beneficial disclosure requirements on each other.
It’s either that, or never enjoy the benefits of capitalism."
530,187,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/12/16/crypto-winter-isnt-chilling-vcs-from-investing-in-web3-says-pitchbook-analyst/,"Crypto Winter Isn’t Chilling VCs From Investing in Web3, Says PitchBook Analyst","Robert Le, senior emerging technology research analyst at the data and research company, breaks down investment in the coming months and details which areas of the industry are seeing growth right now.",2022-12-16,"Crypto winter hasn’t hit all corners of the industry the same way. According to a senior analyst at data and research firm PitchBook, venture capital investors are still betting on Web3.
Robert Le, senior emerging research analyst, told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” that VC funding has been shifting away from centralized crypto services such as lenders and exchanges, while companies involved with expanding Web 3 have seen an increase in investment.
“Web 3 is one area that investors have deployed a lot more money over the last six months,” Le said, including the metaverse, gaming and other blockchain-based technologies. During the third quarter of 2022, VCs invested an estimated $1.5 billion into Web3-based companies.
Read more: Gaming Platform Forte Partners With Venture Studio SuperLayer to Expand Beyond Web3 Gaming
According to PitchBook's latest report on third-quarter emerging technologies, by 2027 Web3-based content platforms will bring in an estimated $39 billion in revenue, versus the $3.4 billion in revenue that is expected to be earned by the end of 2022.
“What you have seen, though, is that there’s been a shift away from centralized crypto services,” Le added.
VC investing for “exchanges, custodial wallets, crypto on-ramps” and “a lot of centralized lending and borrowing services” fell by about 85%, he said, quoting the report. Le said while the decline is sharp, it’s “not surprising” considering the high-profile failures of many companies, including Celsius Network and BlockFi.
Le said the decline in VC funding was taking place “even before the FTX collapse.” The failed centralized exchange, based in the Bahamas, filed for bankruptcy protection last month, not long after a CoinDesk report revealed FTX’s corporate sibling, Alameda Research, was being propped up by FTX’s native token, FTT.
Looking ahead, Le said crypto winter is going to prompt “non-crypto” investors to get out, and that is why “investments are going to continue to decline into 2023.”
“You're gonna really see a bifurcation,” he said. “You know, over the last 18 months everyone was investing in the crypto space, whether it's crypto-native investors, hedge funds, crossover funds, family offices. You're gonna see a lot of the non-crypto investors move away from this area.”
However, while venture funding will continue to decline into 2023, his company is “looking at some time in the second half of next year where venture investments will continue to increase. And we're being cautiously optimistic here.""
By the second half of next year, the firm said in its report it expects to see an increase in disclosures from crypto platforms, as well as the possibility of regulatory clarity, which could ultimately give crypto investors “a little more confidence.”
Read more: Crypto Is at ‘Brick Wall Stage' and Needs ‘Right Balance’ of Regulation, Says Legal Expert"
531,755,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/16/us-rings-crypto-warning-bell-that-regulators-say-only-congress-can-silence/,US Rings Crypto Warning Bell That Regulators Say Only Congress Can Silence,"The latest report of the Financial Stability Oversight Council says the risky sector needs Congress to intervene, though crypto hasn’t yet posed a danger to the wider financial system.",2022-12-16,"There are hazardous gaps in how crypto is overseen, according to the latest annual report from the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) – restating a view that’s long been adopted by U.S. lawmakers, regulators and the industry itself.
The FSOC – a panel of U.S. financial agency chiefs that includes U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell and the heads of several other regulatory agencies – met Friday to discuss risks to the financial system and approve the council’s annual report. While echoing the same widely held concerns about an inability to reach into spot markets for tokens that aren’t securities, the report shared another common position: Only Congress can give the agencies the powers they need to establish a full set of rules that covers the whole crypto industry.
The report specifically recommended ""legislation relating to regulators’ authorities to have visibility into and supervise the activities of all of the affiliates and subsidiaries of crypto-asset entities.""
Yellen said risks from digital asset represent one of the ""key priorities"" in this year's report.
""We have seen significant shocks and volatility in the crypto assets system over the past year, including in recent months,"" she said.
The FSOC was built as the ultimate lookout for future financial tsunamis after the global mess in 2008. Officials were quick to point out that crypto’s current troubles don’t pose any current risk to the traditional system during the meeting. The Treasury document illustrated that point with the fresh example of industry turmoil caused by the collapse of the FTX crypto exchange, which left U.S. banking unscathed.
""The problems at FTX precipitated price decreases in bitcoin and other crypto-assets, but thus far have had a limited impact on the broader U.S. financial system,"" the document noted.
In a separate closed-door portion of the meeting, the regulators – including Gary Gensler, the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and Rostin Behnam, who runs the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) – discussed the recent crypto market dramas. According to a summary of that conversation later released by the Treasury Department, the members are watching those developments closely and ""spillovers to the traditional financial system have remained limited"" so far.
""While the risks from the crypto markets generally do not appear to date to have spread to the traditional financial sector, we must remain vigilant to guard against that possibility,"" Gensler said in the open meeting. Already, he argued, the ""largely non-compliant market"" is putting individual investors at risk.
The annual report also flagged a topic that could be considered a legacy of FTX: Its campaign to cut out the middlemen in clearing crypto derivatives trades, including the proposal that customers’ positions could be closed out by an automated system. The council called for a closer look at the dangers that concept might pose, even though FTX’s proposal to the CFTC was dropped by the company when it collapsed.
The sentiments expressed in the latest annual report are similar to the much lengthier document released by the council in October at the behest of President Joe Biden’s executive order. That earlier report suggested Congress needs to soon pick an agency that will have power over the spot markets for bitcoin trading and any other cryptocurrencies that aren’t deemed securities. So far, most legislation favors the CFTC in that role.
Read More: What’s Inside the FSOC’s Long-awaited Report on Crypto Regulation
UPDATE (Dec. 16, 2022, 17:01 UTC): Adds details from the report.
UPDATE (Dec. 16, 2022, 17:13 UTC): Adds congressional and FTX references from the report.
UPDATE (Dec. 16, 2022, 17:27 UTC): Adds comment from SEC's Gensler.
UPDATE (Dec. 16, 2022, 17:46 UTC): Adds comment from Treasury Department's readout on the closed-door session."
532,1048,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/16/binance-proof-of-reserves-auditor-mazars-pauses-all-work-for-crypto-clients/,Auditing Firm Mazars Pauses Proof-of-Reserves Work for Crypto Clients,Mazars said it had concerns about how the reports were understood by the public.,2022-12-16,"Mazars, the auditing firm working with Binance and other crypto exchanges, has paused work on proof-of-reserves reports for crypto clients, Binance said in an emailed statement and Mazars confirmed to CoinDesk.
""Mazars has indicated that they will temporarily pause their work with all of their crypto clients globally, which include Crypto.com, KuCoin and Binance. Unfortunately, this means that we will not be able to work with Mazars for the moment,"" a Binance spokesperson said. The suspension was reported earlier by Bloomberg.
Mazars said in an emailed statement that it had paused only its crypto work relating to proof-of-reserves reports. ""This is due to concerns regarding the way these reports are understood by the public,"" the company said.
Mazars added that proof-of reserve reports ""do not constitute either an assurance or an audit opinion on subject matter. Instead they report limited findings based on the agreed procedures performed on the subject matter at a historical point in time.""
The accounting firm performed a proof-of-reserves assessment of Binance earlier this month, finding its bitcoin reserves were overcollateralized.
The auditor also found that Kucoin's BTC, ETH, USDT and USDC reserves were all overcollateralized. Mazars' assessment of Crypto.com's reserves found them to be fully backed 1:1.
Mazars' reports on Binance and KuCoin were removed from its website, though they are available online at SilverSixpence, which assisted in their production.
Crypto exchanges came under pressure to provide proof of reserves in the wake of the of collapse of FTX, a once-dominant exchange that went bankrupt last month. Former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried is now in custody in the Bahamas on charges of wire fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering, among others.
Binance coin (BNB) fell after the announcement. It has lost about 5% in the past 24 hours, CoinDesk data shows. Crypto.com'sCRO has lost 3.9% and KuCoin's native token KCS around 2.5%.
Read more: CryptoQuant: On-Chain Data Shows Crypto Exchange Binance Isn't Exhibiting ‘FTX-Like’ Behavior
UPDATE (Dec. 16, 12:35 UTC): Adds price performance of Binance's BNB token, Crypto.com's and Kucoin's KCS.
UPDATE (Dec. 16, 16:58 UTC): Adds confirmation and comments from Mazars.
UPDATE (Jan. 9, 09:12 UTC): Changes headline and first paragraph to clarify that Mazars has specifically paused proof-of-reserve work for crypto clients; adds that Binance and KuCoin reports are available online."
533,690,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/16/three-arrows-capital-estimated-its-assets-at-around-1b-in-july-report/,Three Arrows Capital Estimated Its Assets at Around $1B in July: Report,"The assets are dwarfed by the hedge fund's liabilities, which stood at over $3 billion.",2022-12-16,"Bankrupt crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC) estimated its assets to be worth around $1 billion in July, The Block reported, citing a document prepared by 3AC liquidator Teneo.
The document was sent to creditors Thursday and said the assets included $37 million in fiat money, tokens worth about $238 million, non-fungible tokens (NFT) worth around $22 million and venture and other investments valued at $502 million.
""Due to volatility in the crypto market generally, together with the substantial number of illiquid investments held by the company, it is presently uncertain what level of recoveries will be made during the course of the liquidation,"" Teneo wrote, according to the report.
The $1 billion in assets is dwarfed by Three Arrows Capital's liabilities, which stood at over $3 billion.
Teneo was appointed to handle the liquidation of 3AC by the High Court in the hedge fund's native Singapore, having been initially ordered in a British Virgin Islands court. Earlier this month Teneo seized $35.6 million from the firm's bank accounts to go with $2.8 million recovered from forced redemption of investments and an unspecified number of tokens and NFTs.
The collapse of 3AC following heavy losses amid declining cryptocurrency valuations was one of the focal points on the onset of the crypto winter in recent months. Since then a swathe of other prominent crypto firms have also filed for bankruptcy including crypto lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital and exchange FTX.
Teneo did not respond to CoinDesk's request for comment.
Read more: Embattled Crypto Firm FTX Wants to Sell Its Functioning Units, Including LedgerX"
534,750,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/16/basel-committee-endorses-global-crypto-banking-rules-to-be-implemented-by-2025/,Basel Committee Endorses Global Crypto Banking Rules to Be Implemented by 2025,The rules suggested that a bank's exposure to certain crypto assets must not exceed 2% and should generally be lower than 1%.,2022-12-16,"The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) has endorsed its global crypto banking rules for implementation by Jan. 1, 2025, according to an emailed statement on Friday.
An accompanying document by the committee, which is the primary global standard setter for the prudential regulation of banks, suggested that a bank's exposure to certain crypto assets must not exceed 2% and should generally be lower than 1%. These particular assets are tokenized traditional assets including non-fungible tokens, stablecoins and unbacked crypto assets that don't meet classification conditions. Meanwhile, those assets from the list above that do meet the criteria ""are subject to capital requirements based on the risk weights of underlying exposures as set out in the existing Basel Framework.""
Previously a group of eight traditional finance lobby groups had written to the committee suggesting that just a 1% cap on banks could be too restrictive and could derail innovations using distributed ledger technology. Now there is more wiggle room.
“Today’s endorsement by the GHOS (Group of Central Bank Governors and Heads of Supervision) marks an important milestone in developing a global regulatory baseline for mitigating risks to banks from crypto assets,"" said Tiff Macklem, chair of the GHOS, the oversight body of the committee.
The classification conditions the committee have set out include ensuring crypto passes a redemption risk test and basis risk test. ""The redemption risk test is to ensure that the reserve assets are sufficient to enable the crypto assets to be redeemable at all times,"" the report said. Meanwhile, the basis risk test ""aims to ensure that the holder of a crypto asset can sell it in the market for an amount that closely tracks the peg value,"" the report said.
Regulators have taken a cautious approach to regulating the crypto sector, which has been extremely volatile lately. Billions of dollars were wiped out of the crypto market within a year after the fall of Terra, FTX and their related companies and tokens.
The crypto standards the committee set out will be added into the consolidated Basel Framework shortly, the report said. Whether or not these rules are applied will be up to individual jurisdictions."
535,198,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/19/first-mover-asia-missing-from-the-debate-about-binances-proof-of-reserves-and-auditor-one-metric-shows-another-exchange-could-be-in-trouble/,"First Mover Asia: Missing From the Debate About Binance’s Proof of Reserves and Auditor, One Metric Shows Another Exchange Could Be in Trouble",Bitcoin was flat in early Monday trading.,2022-12-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin was flat heading into Asia hours on Monday, though crypto analysts are warning that pressure from the U.S. Federal Reserve's monetary tightening isn't likely to fade anytime soon.
Insights: Proof of reserves isn't necessarily the best way to check a company's health.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Fed's Powell replaces SBF as crypto-markets bogeyman
By Bradley Keoun
Now that the most tumultuous phase of the aftermath of the swift collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange has passed, crypto traders are back to dealing with a familiar adversary: the Federal Reserve.
The U.S. central bank’s campaign this year to squelch soaring inflation by tightening monetary conditions is again becoming top-of-mind for crypto traders, with Fed Chair Jerome Powell and top officials signaling last week that the stiff pressure might remain well into 2023.
“While volatility-crushing fatigue has set in as the Christmas/New year interval approaches, markets will no doubt have to react to this in a bearish way, either with a slow bleed into year-end, or with another January/Q1 sell-off like we saw this year,” the crypto trading firm QCP Capital wrote in a Dec. 17 note on Telegram.
Crypto markets were sedate over the weekend and staying flat into Asia trading hours early Monday, with the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) unchanged over the past 24 hours. Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market value, was changing trading hands around 16,760, up 0.18% over 24 hours.
According to Greg Cipolaro, global head of research at the bitcoin-focused investment firm NYDIG, investors remain “understandably skittish about the practices of exchanges, prop trading firms and lenders” given the industry events of the past six to nine months.
The ongoing pressure from the Fed might “keep a lid on financial assets, including bitcoin, until we get some relief from the monetary policy backdrop,” he wrote in a Dec. 16 newsletter.
Glassnode, the data and analysis firm, noted that “supply and demand dynamics show a lack of activity as investors remain wary following the demise of FTX and the FUD around Binance,” the world’s largest crypto exchange. “FUD” is an acronym for “fear, uncertainty and doubt,” and in the crypto lexicon it refers to pretty much any fresh information that tends toward the bearish side.
“The outlook for bitcoin is not assured for the year-end given the great resistance above $18K, despite the continued seller exhaustion,” according to Glassnode.
Proof of Reserves is useless without proof of liabilities
By Sam Reynolds
Mazars, the auditing firm working with Binance and other crypto exchanges on proof-of-reserves statements, is pausing its crypto work for the right reason: It's not producing audits, as has been erroneously claimed. But for now, on-chain data is an excellent guide to see who’s really in trouble.
Mazars announced Friday that it’s pausing work for crypto clients because what it’s producing is being misunderstood by the public. Almost immediately, the market panicked, pushing down Binance’s BNB token by almost 10%. It’s since recovered 4.6% over the last 24 hours, according to CoinDesk data.
Mazars is right for doing this. We shouldn’t be calling these reports audits, because they don’t contain a key element for any financial report – liabilities. But we shouldn’t be panicking either, because on-chain data is so far supporting the reported data from Mazars.
There’s a far more interesting metric that we can retrieve via on-chain data that wouldn’t be captured in a Mazars report, which is quality of reserves. And this metric, which measures how reliant an exchange’s reserves are on its proprietary token, shows that Binance doesn’t have the issue some think it does.
Data from CryptoQuant, which pioneered the metric in a recent report, shows that Binance’s reserves are 89% clean.
In contrast, Huobi’s reserves of roughly $3 billion are 56.7% ""clean"", or to put it another way, 43.3% of its reserves are made up of its own exchange token. It's where our attention should be focused now, and not Binance, given that the exchange is the sixth biggest and does around $422 million in daily volume per CoinGecko data.
To be sure, Binance is sometimes its own worst enemy and tends to add fuel to its own fire and encourage conspiracy theories and market panic. Binance is not doing much to help itself by temporarily suspending USDC withdrawals (other stablecoins remained open) and being coy when asked where its controlling company is located.
All this comes as Huobi introduces a new burning mechanism to burn more of its token (think: buyback), thus increasing its value. Huobi’s HT token is down nearly 40% on the year, and it's now priced at $5.46, according to CoinGecko data. In a recent press release, Huobi said there was a 15.94% increase in the number of HT burnt in November compared to October, and this will increase more in the first quarter of 2023.
“Huobi reserves have a highly risky setup at the moment,” Caue Oliveria, one of CryptoQuant’s author-analysts, wrote in a note to CoinDesk. “Tokens issued by the company itself are a risk to the company's net health, since it is difficult to sustain the veracity of the issuance of these coins.”
Oliveria reiterated that FTX’s use of FTT to collateralize loans was one of its causes of failure, and Huobi is playing a dangerous game here.
But CoinGecko co-founder and Chief Operating Officer Bobby Ong's take on the situation is more restrained. He told CoinDesk that we also need to know Huobi’s liabilities to get a proper sense of the situation.
“If the exchange is not using its collateral to borrow money, it doesn't really matter what the clean reserves are. If every customer’s crypto is fully held 1:1 in proper wallets, it doesn’t really matter,” he told CoinDesk via Telegram. “What is more important is knowing the exchange's liabilities amount. Knowing the reserves is one part of the equation, but more importantly, what are the liabilities.”
And those liabilities, for now, are a mystery. Huobi would not respond to emails asking for comment on CryptoQuant’s number or its liabilities by press time. While Huobi has posted its proof of reserves, missing from this report and many other exchange’s similar reports, are its proof of liabilities (hence why Mazars wants out of this business).
“If an exchange has $1 billion in bitcoin liability, it better have $1 billion of bitcoin in cold wallet reserves backing this liability,” Ong concluded.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Dips Under $17K; Binance Proof-of-Reserves Auditor Mazars Pauses All Work for Crypto Clients
Failed crypto exchange FTX is now looking to sell some of its acquisitions, including LedgerX. Why is Binance proof-of-reserves auditor Mazars pausing all work for crypto clients? And why are bitcoin and ether prices falling? Joining the markets discussion is CryptoQuant senior analyst Julio Moreno and Path Trading Partners co-founder Bob Iaccino. Plus, Robert Le of Pitchbook has surprising news about venture capital funding in the crypto industry.
Warren’s Reactionary Crypto Policy vs. Dorsey’s Decentralized Social Media Gambit; Policy actions that decry decentralization in response to FTX sort of miss The Point.
FTX and Crypto Bust Show Capitalism’s Limits; Investors have been led astray by misleading signals from the market. It enticed them to go ""all in"" on centralized exchanges rather than focusing on real-world use cases for tokenized value exchange.
Binance Proof-of-Reserves Auditor Mazars Pauses All Work for Crypto Clients; Mazars has deleted Binance's proof-of-reserves assessment, which found its bitcoin reserves were overcollateralized."
536,761,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/19/binanceus-agrees-to-buy-bankrupt-crypto-lender-voyagers-assets-for-over-1b/,Binance.US Agrees to Buy Voyager's Assets for $1.02B,The agreement comes after CoinDesk had reported last month that Binance was preparing a bid for Voyager's assets.,2022-12-19,"Voyager Digital, the bankrupt crypto lender, said Binance.US has agreed to buy its assets for $1.022 billion, the firm said on Monday.
The bid represents the fair market value of Voyager's cryptocurrency portfolio, which has a current market value of around $1.002 billion, and an additional consideration of $20 million in incremental value.
""The Binance.US bid aims to return crypto to customers in kind, in accordance with court-approved disbursements and platform capabilities,"" Voyager said in the statement.
Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao had said last month that exchange's U.S. wing would be making a fresh bid for Voyager Digital. CoinDesk had earlier reported that Binance was preparing a bid for the bankrupt crypto lender's assets.
Binance.US will make a good faith deposit of $10 million and will reimburse Voyager for certain expenses up to $15 million. Voyager will also seek the approval of the bankruptcy court at a hearing on Jan. 5, 2023.
Voyager, which went into bankruptcy earlier this year, had agreed to sell its assets to the now-defunct crypto exchange FTX, with FTX beating out rivals Wave Financial and Binance for the assets.
VGX, the native token of Voyager Digital, skyrocketed over 32% after Binance won the bid. VGX was trading at about 38 U.S. cents at the time of writing. Binance's BNB token also rose over 1% on the news, trading at $250.
The news come as Binance itself is being scrutinized. Last week, Binance lost its auditor, Mazars Group, and the recently published proof of reserves report that was requested by the exchange's community. This added to previously circulating concerns that the financial stability of the exchange is unhealthy.
“Binance is making a bold move buying Voyager,” said Shaban Shaame, founder and CEO at EverDreamSoft. “They are sending a signal showing the market that they have a strong resilience on the current bear market. The time will tell if they are bluffing, or they are not only solvent but also strong in their balance sheet.”
UPDATE (Dec. 19, 13:30 UTC): Adds background, token movements.
UPDATE (Dec. 20, 16:03 UTC): Adds Binance under scrutiny, quote in last two paragraphs."
537,119,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/19/ftx-collapse-is-golden-opportunity-for-developers-says-tezos-co-founder/,"FTX Collapse Is ‘Golden Opportunity’ for Developers, Says Tezos Co-Founder",Kathleen Breitman discusses why the collapse of FTX is a “massive distraction” for the industry but has made it prime time for hiring developers.,2022-12-19,"Tezos’ Kathleen Breitman sees the collapse of FTX bringing down to Earth expectations for crypto-based platforms. The blockchain protocol platform co-founder contends this will make room for hiring more developers within the ecosystem.
She told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” the FTX collapse took place at a time of “mass layoffs from really well-run companies,” so that from a recruitment perspective “this is actually a pretty golden opportunity.”
“A lot of what FTX was doing through its venture arm [FTX Ventures] was increasing the valuations of companies and creating extremely outsized expectations,” Breitman said. “Having expectations pulled down to Earth while a lot of challenges [are] coming into the market is actually pretty great, from a [developer's] perspective.”
Read more: Sam Bankman-Fried Won’t Contest US Extradition: Reports
Breitman said that while blockchain technology isn’t to blame for FTX’s downfall, that downfall has been a “massive distraction” for the industry, especially for those unfamiliar with crypto.
FTX, based in the Bahamas, imploded and filed for bankruptcy protection not long after a CoinDesk report detailed how its corporate sibling, Alameda Research, had a substantial amount of FTX’s native token, FTT, on its balance sheet. FTX and Alameda Research founder Sam Bankman-Fried is currently awaiting extradition to the United States from the Bahamas for misleading investors. He faces charges including intent to commit wire fraud, money laundering and other criminal charges.
According to Breitman, the industry can recover from the dark shadow cast by the collapse of FTX. She added that FTX’s wrongdoings “could have happened in pretty much any industry.”
Read more: Media Groups Win Right to Argue for Publication of FTX’s Million-Strong Creditor List
Breitman said that, in future, investors should be more “discerning” about the projects that interest them and examine who will be running them.
Tezos, a public and open-source blockchain protocol that uses a proof-of-stake (PoS) model, underwent its 12th upgrade Sunday night, which Breitman said made no headlines and veered toward the “boring” side of things.
“We're starting to see the value of being kind of boring and reliable and focusing on shipping great technology over giving eye-melting headlines and valuations for yet-built products,” Breitman said.
CORRECTION (Dec. 19 19:50): Removes references to Kathleen Breitman, the co-founder of Tezos, also being the CEO."
538,111,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/12/20/nansen-analyst-on-chain-data-shows-binances-financials-are-a-black-box/,Nansen Analyst: On-Chain Data Shows Binance’s Financials Are a ‘Black Box’,Andrew Thurman breaks down why the largest cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume may be “tremendously well capitalized” but still veers towards financial obscurity.,2022-12-20,"Binance, the top cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume, may be “tremendously well capitalized,” but its financials are still “very much a black box,” said an analyst at data insights company Nansen.
Andrew Thurman told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” that although the exchange has published that it holds $55 billion in customer deposits on-chain, “aside from that, we don’t have much on-chain or any kind of financial access or transparency into their entities.”
Binance has come under the media microscope after a large sum of funds, amounting to roughly $6 billion, moved out of the exchange last week during a 24-hour period. Jump Trading, a prominent trading firm in the ecosystem, was among the largest entities that moved funds out of Binance, according to Nansen’s analysis.
Read more: Binance.US Agrees to Buy Voyager's Assets for $1.02B
Thurman said it may have been a way for Jump Trading to redeem its BUSD, which is issued by Paxos, an exchange licensed by the New York State Department of Financial Services.
Still, Thurman said, despite Binance being one of the first exchanges to issue a proof of reserves, via a report that has since been removed by its auditor Mazars, on top of being well-capitalized after the collapse of FTX it is difficult to pinpoint the exchange’s financial health. “In short, you can’t” tell whether users can see the exchange’s liabilities against its supposed $55 billion in assets, Thurman said.
“Proof of reserves doesn’t give you the full picture. It’s not a full audit,” Thurman said.
Whether BNB, Binance’s native token, could face the same fate as FTT, the native token of bankrupt exchange FTX, is still unclear, Thurman said. “You would have to see somewhere around $12 billion in net outflows for [Binance] to be stressed the same way FTX was prior to them halting withdrawals,” Thurman said.
Read more: Boris Johnson's Brother Quits as Binance Adviser
What is evident is that “BNB is very popular on-chain,” Thurman said, and that “there’s real activity there.” However, “We have no idea what the liabilities are on Binance’s side or how BNB plays into that,” Thurman said. He said that what is known is that at least $18 billion of the $55 billion in reserves is stowed away at Paxos.
“We know there’s at least $18 billion in real dollars there, even if you discount the value of all the various digital assets in aggregate that Binance has,” Thurman said.
Thurman is relatively unconcerned about reports of flows between Binance and its American subsidiary.
“In my personal view, some of these transfers between Binance and Binance.US, the noise around them might be a little bit overblown,” Thurman said. “Transfers between exchanges are not uncommon, particularly when it's a market maker moving large sums of stablecoins.”
CoinDesk reached out for comment from Binance but did not hear back by the time of publication."
539,1047,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/20/first-mover-asia-taiwans-dreams-of-becoming-blockchain-hub-prove-elusive/,First Mover Asia: Taiwan's Dreams of Becoming Blockchain Hub Prove Elusive,"Taiwanese law makes it difficult for startups to incorporate on the island, explains a Taipei-based lawyer, meaning many locally based firms legally call another place home.",2022-12-20,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin heads lower into Asia hours, though some analysts wonder if the largest cryptocurrency might hold up better than stocks in an earnings recession.
Insights: Taiwan's dreams of becoming a crypto hub remain elusive, despite the inevitable chatter that sprang up following a successful Taipei Blockchain Week.
Bitcoin dropping into Asia trading hours
By Bradley Keoun
Bitcoin (BTC) was dropping in early Asia hours, down 2% over the past 24 hours, to around $16,439. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) was also down about 2%. In a potentially unnerving development, bitcoin addresses tied to the defunct Canadian crypto exchange QuadrigaCX suddenly became active.
Trading was mostly anemic during U.S. hours, with equity markets starting to reflect nervousness over the potential for any drop-off in corporate earnings that might come with a recession. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite closed down 1.49%. The S&P 500 slid 0.90% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 0.49%.
Crypto analysts are starting to wonder if bitcoin might hold up better than stocks if the economy turns down.
""The muted beta in crypto aligns with the idea that crypto assets might be less susceptible to a drawdown in equities catalyzed by an earnings recession,"" FundStrat's Sean Farrell wrote Monday in a note to investors.
According to the crypto hedge fund BitBull Capital, the $20,000 mark looms as a major resistance point for the bitcoin market. On the downside, the next point to watch would be the November low around $15,500.
Taipei Blockchain Week was a success, but there are reasons Taiwan isn’t a crypto hub
By Sam Reynolds
After every successful crypto conference in Taipei, the narrative that Taiwan is the undiscovered blockchain hub of Asia invariably comes up. It never seems to have any legs.
Taipei Blockchain Week, a conference put together by Taiwan-focused Bu Zhi Dao (a play on the Chinese term for ‘I don’t know’), wrapped up Saturday. Despite being put together at the last minute because of uncertainty around Covid rules, there were around 1,700 in attendance. It wasn’t quite the star-studded Asia Blockchain Summit, but the energy was optimistic, despite the bear market.
It’s hard to say that about Taiwan’s prospects for becoming a blockchain hub. Back in 2018, then KMT-legislator Jason Hsu said Taiwan could become a “blockchain island.” This year, the Hong Kong-based investor Sora Ventures said it was moving its fund to Taiwan. But an attempt to create a Security Token Offering structure to allow crypto firms to raise money in a regulatory-friendly way never really took off, because of a low cap on the amount one can fundraise.
While there are many digital nomads in the crypto industry in Taiwan, including projects that purport to be on the island, few are actually incorporated locally as the rules around capital formation make it too difficult. Many business cards given out at Taipei Blockchain Week carried addresses in Singapore, Hong Kong and BVI.
“Rarely is Taiwan the place to incorporate a start-up company's parent,” Ross Feingold, special counsel at Taipei-based Titan Attorneys at Law, told CoinDesk. “The traditional corporate structures are not start-up friendly because of limitations on a founder's services as payment for shares and limitations on share transfer restrictions among other issues, as well as the corporate governance requirements.”
Authorities in Taiwan created a new company structure in 2015 that tried to address some of these issues but it's complex to understand, Feingold explained, especially for those who can’t read Chinese at the level of an accountant or lawyer.
Those that do make the attempt to incorporate in Taiwan complain about the three to four months it takes; a company can be registered in Singapore in an average of 1.5 days and in less than 48 hours in Hong Kong. Both of those jurisdictions use common law, with a share structure more familiar to international investors, and they have more competitive tax regimes than Taiwan’s corporate tax rate and its withholding tax on dividends.
At the height of COVID-19, Taiwan’s digital nomad friendly Gold Card, which allowed one to make the move provided they could prove they had an income of $67,000 or more, made things look appealing. Feingold says that’s only the case for digital nomads and freelancers.
“The allure waned if the individual really needs to be in a place where the corporate headquarters is sited,” he said. “Some of the same issues that hinder Taiwan as a startup nation existed then and remain unchanged.”
Feingold says that while Taiwan’s regulator, the Financial Supervisory Commission, has put in minimal restrictions for now, there’s always the “lingering risk that Taiwan's financial or tax authorities become more proactive in regulating the industry.”
For what it’s worth, Thailand, another regional suitor, also has complicated and arcane company formation laws, even though Thailand’s Siam Commercial Bank, the most institutional of all investors in-country, actively invests and supports decentralized finance (DeFi) projects. That might help explain why Thai-based teams also incorporate elsewhere – much like those in Taiwan.
11:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(3:00 UTC) Bank of Japan Interest Rate Decision
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) Canada Retail Sales (MoM/Oct)
11:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(15:00 UTC) Eurozone Consumer Confidence (Dec)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Sam Bankman-Fried Reportedly Expected to Accept US Extradition; Bitcoin Remains in Tight Range
FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried has reportedly had a change of heart and won't contest U.S. extradition. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De had the latest. Plus, Tezos co-founder Kathleen Breitman joined ""First Mover"" to weigh in on the FTX collapse and what it means for crypto as an industry. Matt Hougan of Bitwise provided crypto markets analysis, and DARMA Capital's Andrew Keys shared his 2023 predictions.
The 10 Biggest Developments in Bitcoin in 2022: Whether it's the Taro upgrade or growth in the Lightning Network, Bitcoin has seen steady progress this year, says Cory Klippsten, Tomer Strolight and Sam Callahan of Swan Bitcoin.
Boris Johnson's Brother Quits as Binance Adviser: Binance has struggled launch operations in the U.K. and may be facing money laundering charges from the U.S.
Elon Musk's Twitter Mistakes Prove Web3's Point: Social media has tended towards monopolization. Are we seeing the advent of a new type of “network effect?”
Binance Losing Auditing Partner Mazars Leaves Crypto Questions Unanswered: Auditing firm Mazars, which had published a proof of reserves report for Binance and other exchanges, on Friday cut ties with clients in the crypto industry.
Binance.US Agrees to Buy Voyager's Assets for $1.02B: The agreement comes after CoinDesk had reported last month that Binance was preparing a bid for Voyager's assets."
540,1045,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/20/coinbases-slump-to-all-time-low-sends-market-cap-below-dogecoin/,Coinbase’s Slump to All-Time Low Sends Market Cap Below Dogecoin,"The crypto exchange has dipped another 17% over the past 30 days, bringing its year-to-date plunge to more than 85%.",2022-12-20,"Shares of Coinbase (COIN) hit a fresh all-time low on Tuesday as the U.S.-based exchange continues to struggle with low trading volume amid falling crypto prices. Continuing declines for the stock have driven Coinbase’s market cap to less than $8 billion versus roughly $10 billion for meme favorite dogecoin (DOGE), which has suffered its own major tumble in 2022.
Though up marginally on the session at press time, COIN earlier dipped to as low as $34.35, with this recent decline adding to a 21% drop in November. Shares are down just shy of 86% year to date and off 91% from their all-time high hit shortly after going public in April 2021.
“Crypto traders remain skeptical about holding their cryptos on exchanges,” said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at foreign exchange Oanda. “Coinbase has an uphill battle as many traders fixate over moving their cryptos to cold storage, as surging yields keep pressure on this space, and over an uncertain regulatory path,” he added.
The bear market combined with recent scrutiny amid the collapse and potential fraudulent activities of crypto exchange FTX has led to significant declines in trading volumes – through which Coinbase generates much of its revenue. The movement of tokens to cold storage could exacerbate this trend as investors are less likely to transact as frequently if their coins are not on exchanges.
Online stock trading platform Robinhood (HOOD), for example, last month reported an 80% decline in crypto trading volume.
“The fact that dogecoin has a higher market cap than Coinbase shows you that there is still something wrong with the cryptoverse,” Moya said. While Coinbase may be “a decent long-term way to be on crypto,” Moya thinks shares could sink to the $30 level over the next few months."
541,515,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/20/crypto-markets-today-more-ftx-fallout-as-traders-turn-defensive/,Crypto Markets Today: More FTX Fallout as Traders Turn Defensive,Top assets in the crypto market hold steady.,2022-12-20,"Auros Global, the troubled crypto trading firm and market maker, disclosed Tuesday that it was granted a “Provisional Liquidation” request last month from a court in the British Virgin Islands, as part of efforts to restructure outstanding debt to lenders.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
In a statement posted to Twitter, Auros said that the decision followed “the events that transpired around FTX,” the crypto exchange formerly helmed by Sam Bankman-Fried that imploded in November.
“The company found itself in a position where immediate liquidity was insufficient to satisfy recalls from lenders,” according to the statement. “Management and directors remained confident in the long-term prospects for the business.”
Auros said, ""Upon the successful implementation of the restructuring, it is anticipated that Auros’ operations would resume as normal.”
The firm had $20 million of funds frozen on FTX, according to the intelligence site OffShoreAlert, which cited a Nov. 16 court filing submitted to the British Virgin Islands High Court. The news was previously reported by The Block.
Auros encountered liquidity troubles after the sudden implosion of FTX. Multiple trading firms held a part of their funds on the exchange for trading purposes, and were subsequently hit when FTX halted withdrawals on Nov. 8 and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Nov. 11. Funds on the exchange are now tied up in a lengthy court proceeding.
Bitcoin (BTC): The largest cryptocurrency by market value rose 1.5% over the past 24 hours, trading around $16,890. Equities markets also rose after the Bank of Japan surprisingly widened the target range for its 10-year government bond yield earlier Tuesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 0.28%. The S&P 500 was up 0.10%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite was up 0.01%.
Ether (ETH): The second-largest cryptocurrency followed BTC’s trajectory, up 3.1% around $1,215.
Polygon (MATIC): The MATIC price was recently trading up 1.5% to 79 cents after Polygon co-founder Sandeep Nailwal unveiled Web3 accelerator Beacon, which aims to connect founders with potential investors. The accelerator’s first remote-first, 12-week cohort kicked off in October with more than 30 founders from 15 companies across decentralized finance (DeFi), infrastructure and consumer applications.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
Money is searching for quality in both traditional and digital assets, as investors appear to favor safety above all for right now.
CoinDesk Indices (CDI) data shows the Currency Select Index (CCYS), anchored by bitcoin (BTC), and the Smart Contract Platform Index (SCPX), anchored by ether (ETH), outperforming other select sectors within the CMI universe. CMI sectors represent comprehensive groupings of digital assets by sector, allowing for measurement of performance and a comparison.
What today’s data shows is that, similar to in past market cycles, flights to safety within the cryptosphere is translating to movement of capital into BTC and ETH, relative to other coins. On the other end of the spectrum, the more speculative Computing Index (CPU) and Culture & Entertainment (CNE) have lagged other sectors in both week to date and month to date performance.
Read the full technical take here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a deeper look at who is Binance’s CZ.
FTX Has Over $1B in Cash, Creditor Meeting Told
Coinbase’s Slump to All-Time Low Sends Market Cap Below Dogecoin
Nansen Analyst: On-Chain Data Shows Binance’s Financials Are a ‘Black Box’
Bitcoin Miner Greenidge Reaches Debt Restructuring Deal With NYDIG as Bankruptcy Looms
Bankrupt Crypto Lender BlockFi Looks to Restart Certain Customer Withdrawals
Machankura’s Bitcoin Wallet Targets Africans With Old-School Phones and No Internet
Visa Proposes Automatic Payments Using Ethereum Layer 2 System StarkNet"
542,32,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/21/defi-project-popsicles-ice-token-triples-as-controversial-wonderland-founder-returns/,DeFi Project Popsicle’s ICE Token Triples as Controversial Wonderland Founder Returns,The sudden price surge of Popsicle’s ICE native token coincided with the controversial blockchain developer Daniele Sestagalli revealing his return to rebuild the project.,2022-12-21,"The native token of Popsicle Finance, a decentralized finance (DeFi) market-making and yield-earning protocol, is surging as the controversial yet prolific blockchain developer Daniele Sestagalli said he was returning to the project.
Popsicle’s ICE token’s price jumped some 220% in the last 24 hours, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko. The token currently is trading at 36 U.S. cents, only two days after hitting an all-time low of 9 cents.
Popsicle was part of a loose conglomerate of DeFi projects known as ""Frog Nation"" that were helmed by Sestagalli as recently as January, including Abracadabra.money, whose stablecoin was partly collateralized by the collapsed FTX exchange’s FTT token, and the since-failed Wonderland, a fork of OlympusDAO.
The sudden surge came after Sestagalli tweeted Wednesday that he was “focusing right now on rebuilding the OG Popsicle Finance,” breaking a four-month-long silence on Twitter.
I didn’t launch any coins . Focusing right now on rebuilding the OG Popsicle Finance and working on NFT Real Estate as collateral
Sestagalli, also known as Dani Sesta in crypto circles, garnered a cult following in crypto due to his community-based approach to building projects, CoinDesk wrote in January.
But his reputation took a hit earlier this year when influential crypto vigilante ZachXBT revealed that Sestagalli was working at Wonderland with an executive of the failed QuadrigaCX exchange, which allegedly defrauded investors of at least $190 million.
Read more: How Did a Former Quadriga Exec End Up Running a DeFi Protocol? Wonderland Founder Explains
After the Wonderland fiasco, Sestagalli appeared around Abracadabra and its magic internet money (MIM) stablecoin this summer.
Traders appeared to welcome Sestagalli's return to focusing on Popsicle, and users expressed enthusiasm about shaking up the maligned protocol from its downward trajectory.
Scooping a bag of $ICE, @PopsicleFinance native token.. @danielesesta changed his Twitter bio to popsicle finance after being dormant for some time, possibly some big things in motion behind the scenes..

These were trading at over $27 a token this time last year#SPELL $SPELL pic.twitter.com/9oIbJKZEI6
Popsicle Finance has had an atrocious 2022. Popsicle’s total value locked – a widely used DeFi metric to gauge activity and usage of any protocol – deflated to $1 million from $120 million in November 2021, according to DefiLlama. The ICE token’s price is still down some 98% in a year despite the recent appreciation.
Notably, Popsicle Finance recently deployed a yield optimizer service between blockchains called Limone in test mode on the Avalanche blockchain."
543,409,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/21/first-mover-asia-bitdaos-100m-token-buyback-plan-gets-mixed-reviews/,First Mover Asia: BitDAO’s $100M Token Buyback Plan Gets Mixed Reviews,Bitcoin is lethargic ahead of the new year.,2022-12-21,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: As the end of the year approaches, there's growing speculation that more digital-asset investors might eschew altcoins in favor of major currencies like bitcoin and ether, rotating toward a defensive allocation.
Insights: BitDAO's proposed token buyback plan gets mixed reviews.
With bitcoin listless, crypto investors look ahead to 2023
By Bradley Keoun
There's neither energy nor much enthusiasm in crypto markets as traders head toward the end of 2022.
Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market value, was softening a touch into the early Asia trading day, though was still up 0.6% over the past 24 hours. Ether (ETH), the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain and the second-largest overall, was up 1.4%.
Gloom pervades digital-asset markets as the crypto industry recovers from this year's stunning collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange, while the Federal Reserve, Bank of Japan and other central banks are continuing to ratchet monetary conditions tighter, even as signs mount that the U.S. economy might be heading into a recession next year. (ICYMI here is CoinDesk's fourth-quarter Market Outlook published Tuesday, spotlighting the performance of the CoinDesk Market Index and sectors.)
""Bitcoin’s rally is somewhat unimpressive as crypto traders continue to remain in wait-and-see mode over what will be the next big crypto domino to fall or if we get any clearer guidance over the regulatory front,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst at the foreign-exchange broker Oanda, wrote Tuesday.
Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at the digital-asset manager Arca Funds, wrote in his newsletter this week that ""while I do think the bottom is in, I don't know what sends us higher.""
There's growing speculation that the biggest cryptocurrencies – bitcoin and ether, mainly – might benefit from the market malaise, as investors rotate toward defensive positions.
""We expect digital asset selection will transition towards higher quality names like bitcoin and ether based on factors like sustainable tokenomics, the maturity of respective ecosystems and relative market liquidity,"" Coinbase Institutional Head of Research David Duong wrote Tuesday in a report. ""We think investors’ willingness to accumulate altcoins has been severely impacted by the deleveraging in 2022 and may take many months to fully recuperate.""
BitDAO’s $100M token buyback proposal spurs community concerns
By Shaurya Malwa
Community members of BitDAO, a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) focused on driving adoption of its native BIT token ecosystem, this week proposed to set its Target Daily Purchase Amount (TDPA) at 2 million tether (USDT) per day for 50 days starting Jan. 1, 2023.
The purchase amounts to a total purchase of 100 million USDT of BIT. BitDAO is styled as an open platform for proposals that are voted on by BIT token holders, and is agnostic to chains and projects, as per technical documents.
According to the proposal, the recommended priorities for BitDAO capital deployment include high priority for BIT-related products and low priority for swaps and investments, as well as yield strategies.
The DAO's treasury currently holds 300 million in USDT and USD coin (USDC), and 270,000 ether (ETH), valued at approximately $345 million, which is expected to be sufficient to cover at least five years of BIT product development.
BitDAO community members said that the original strategy for the collective was to grow the treasury via direct investments and the creation of BitDAO-like entities (sub-DAO/autonomous entities) and investments.
However, that strategy had a “questionable impact” on driving outcomes for BIT. “The most performant DAOs (Lido, Aave, Uni) have been centered on underlying core products that have large addressable markets and longevity,” the proposal stated, calling for higher priorities on “core products” related to BitDAO instead.
One such core product is the upcoming Ethereum layer 2 network Mantle, the proposal said. The initial development of Mantle has been bootstrapped by Bybit, one of BitDAO’s key backers, with the next phase being a DAO proposal and budget cycles for expanded development and go-to-market activities.
The proposal also recommended against pursuing complex financial derivatives such as swaps and investments that do not have strategic outcomes for BIT. The lack of flexibility for DAOs to negotiate competitive deals and limited options for post-investment legal and governance involvement once funds have been transferred were listed as key reasons for such a dissuasive move.
Additionally, the proposal advised against participating in yield strategies due to the high systemic risk in the crypto market and the difficulty in calculating fair prices and slippage for altcoins. The risks associated with capital deployment and liquidity constraints when unwinding positions are also cited as reasons for caution.
Responses on the currently live proposal remained mixed as of Wednesday morning.
“It is not a good idea to buyback at this price level,” one community member said, citing BIT’s token prices remaining above the net asset value of a basket of underlying ether, USDT and USDC.
“I’m afraid I have to disagree,” another poster said. “We should constantly buy back and burn. BIT tokens still don’t have demand, if we don’t buy back and burn BIT tokens will go to zero. Buyback and burn at least 2024 because every month 180 million tokens will release (sic).”
Some community members pointed out crypto exchange Bybit’s upcoming token incentive program as a cause for concern. “I have reservations about this repurchase,” wrote one member. “Bybit is about to issue a year-end bonus of 92 million BIT. At this time, BitDAO proposed to repurchase it, giving people the feeling that the treasury will pay for the year-end bonus.”
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) Germany Gfk Consumer Confidence Survey (Jan)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) Bank of Canada Consumer Price Index Core (YoY/Nov)
11:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(15:00 UTC) United States Consumer Confidence (Dec)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
FTX Developments; Who Moved 100 Bitcoins Tied to Defunct Crypto Exchange QuadrigaCX?
""First Mover"" dived into the mystery of the sudden movement of 100 BTC tied to the bankrupt Canadian crypto exchange, QuadrigaCX. The 100 BTC moved out of cold storage wallets after sitting dormant for more than three years. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De had the latest. Plus, CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Jodie Gunzberg had a quarterly review of the best and worst performing sectors in the crypto industry. And, Nansen analyst Andrew Thurman took a closer look at Binance's recent outflows.
Sam Bankman-Fried Reportedly Set for Extradition to the US: A hearing in The Bahamas is set for Wednesday morning.
Nansen Analyst, On-Chain Data Shows Binance’s Financials Are a ‘Black Box’: Andrew Thurman breaks down why the largest cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume may be “tremendously well capitalized” but still veers towards financial obscurity.
CoinDesk Market Outlook: 4Q Crypto Gloom Spills Into 2023: A comprehensive fourth-quarter review and outlook of crypto markets, based on the CoinDesk Market Ex Stablecoins Index (CMIX) and sector indices.
Machankura’s Bitcoin Wallet Targets Africans With Old-School Phones and No Internet: The service lets users in nine African countries tap into the Bitcoin Lightning network using basic feature phones. “Anyone who's interested in using bitcoin and living on bitcoin should be able to do so easily,” founder Kgothatso Ngako said.
Coinbase’s Slump to All-Time Low Sends Market Cap Below Dogecoin: The crypto exchange has dipped another 17% over the past 30 days, bringing its year-to-date plunge to more than 85%."
544,1046,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/21/australian-crypto-exchange-swyftx-share-trading-platform-superhero-abandon-merger-plan/,"Australian Crypto Exchange Swyftx, Share Trading Platform Superhero Abandon Merger Plan","The regulatory environment is not one in which mergers of traditional businesses and crypto-native companies can easily take place, one lawyer said.",2022-12-21,"Australian crypto exchange Swyftx and share trading and superannuation platform Superhero canceled their planned merger, saying the decision was reached after the government turned up the regulatory heat on the crypto industry.
The plan was announced in June, and was touted as a ""historic merger"" that would create a A$1.5 billion (US$10 billion) ""digital and traditional finance powerhouse"" and bring over 800,000 customers under one roof.
The cancelation comes after the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) sued three crypto-related entities – BlockEarner, BPS Financial, the company behind the qoin digital token, and financial product comparison website Finder.com. The government, meantime, is taking steps toward tightening crypto rules next year by inviting comments and feedback for a consultation paper.
“The volatility in the market as well as the current regulatory environment has made it increasingly difficult to achieve the initial vision that inspired the merger earlier this year,"" Superhero CEO John Winter said. ""Superhero will return to being independently owned by myself and my co-founder Wayne Baskin.""
The environment isn't helped by the collapse of several high-profile companies, including crypto exchange FTX and crypto lender Voyager Digital and a decline in the crypto market. Earlier this month, Swyftx cut 90 jobs or 35% of its total workforce because of the market downturn.
""The ongoing regulatory uncertainty around crypto-assets, combined with rising regulation-by-enforcement, does not encourage an environment where mergers of more traditional businesses and crypto-native companies can easily take place,” said Michael Bacina, a partner at law firm Piper Alderman who is not involved in the transaction, in a WhatsApp message.
The cancelation was reported earlier by the Australian Financial Review.
Read More: Australia Moves to Tighten Safety Around Crypto in 2023
CORRECTION (Dec. 21, 11:41 UTC): Corrects attribution of lawyer's quote in last paragraph."
545,15,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/22/first-mover-americas-ftt-token-at-center-of-new-us-charges-in-ftx-case/,First Mover Americas: FTT Token at Center of New US Charges in FTX Case,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Dec. 22, 2022.",2022-12-22,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has called FTX’s FTT exchange token a security. FTT was sold as an investment contract and is a ""security,"" the SEC said in a complaint filed late Wednesday, in a move that is sure to have a wide-ranging impact on the industry. ""If demand for trading on the FTX platform increased, demand for the FTT token could increase, such that any price increase in FTT would benefit holders of FTT equally and in direct proportion to their FTT holdings,"" the SEC wrote in its complaint.
Former Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison and FTX co-founder Gary Wang have pleaded guilty to criminal fraud charges tied to FTX's collapse. The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission also announced charges against the two, saying Ellison manipulated the price of FTT. The duo are cooperating with investigators. The U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York did not specify what they were being charged with.
Twitter has integrated cryptocurrency prices into search results using a plug-in from charting platform TradingView. The integration allows users to type crypto or stock tickers into the search bar to generate the current value and a price chart. The result also includes a link to trading app Robinhood. The social media giant has had several ties to the crypto industry over the past few years, adding a tipping feature in September 2021 while the company was under the management of Jack Dorsey. Since then, Twitter has been taken over by Elon Musk.
The chart shows the number of daily active bitcoin addresses since January 2020. The metric filters out addresses with unsuccessful transactions.
The average number of daily active addresses (DAA) this year has been 921,445 – a 16% drop from the 2021 average of 1.1 million.
""Aside from the decline in trading volumes, the fall in DAA could also correspond to reduced mining operations as miners' activity corresponds to BTC's most significant on-chain movements,"" the Dec. 12 issue of Bitfinex's Alpha report said.
The greater the active user participation on the blockchain, the higher the demand for and the price of the cryptocurrency.
There's Less Money in Crypto, and That's a Good Thing
Caroline Ellison Plea Agreement: $250,000 Bail, Surrender of Travel Documents, Forfeiture of Assets
Crypto Markets Analysis: Bitcoin and Ether’s Flat Trajectory to Continue, Technical Indicators Suggest"
546,603,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/12/22/aave-dao-votes-to-integrate-chainlink-proof-of-reserves-to-tighten-network-security/,Aave DAO Votes to Integrate Chainlink Proof of Reserves to Tighten Network Security,"Although the decentralized lending protocol’s data is inherently on-chain, introducing Chainlink’s PoR would help mitigate the risk of attacks on the Aave protocol.",2022-12-22,"Decentralized lending protocol Aave will implement a “proof of reserve” system to protect bridged assets on Avalanche, a decentralized finance (DeFi) twist on the centralized exchanges racing to shore up customer confidence in the wake of FTX.
The decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) behind Aave, the popular DeFi protocol on Ethereum, approved blockchain oracle Chainlink’s Proof of Reserve smart contract by a vote of over 99% in favor. It will specifically cover Aave versions (v)2 and v3 on the Avalanche blockchain.
Bridged assets are DeFi’s way of moving value between blockchains that don’t normally communicate with each other. The asset gets locked in a smart contract on its home chain; then, a clone is issued on the target network. Aave v3 on Avalanche has bridged versions of DAI, USDT and USDC, among other tokens.
But this setup creates many security vulnerabilities, and hackers have repeatedly exploited token bridges. This year, Web3 game Axie Infinity’s Ronin network and cross-chain protocol Nomad faced exploits totaling over $800 million due to breaches on their token-bridges.
Bored Ghost Developing, the Web3 studio behind the proposal, says its PoR smart contracts will give an extra layer of security to Aave’s Avalanche implementation, but can also help mitigate attacks on bridged assets on the network.
“The focus is more on automatically detecting and acting whenever any symptom of security issues on a bridge appears,” said Ernesto Boado, the former chief technology officer at Aave and co-founder at Bored Ghost Developing, which wrote the proposal. “We think that obviously, transparency goes first, in this case, our development goes a step further.”
Under the proposal Aave will use ChainLink PoR’s aggregator smart contract to protect tokens on the original network (Ethereum) as well as their bridged versions on the target network (Avalanche).
Max Melcher, go-to-market lead of proof of reserve at Chainlink Labs, told CoinDesk that proof of reserves allow decentralized technologies to accurately report on reserve values, rather than trusting a single party to do so.
“Leveraging Chainlink Proof of Reserve, Aave can verify that bridged assets accepted on the platform are fully collateralized before allowing users to borrow against them,” said Melcher.
Proof of reserves have recently been in the news post-collapse of FTX because the industry is demanding more transparency from centralized exchanges (CEX). Earlier this month, popular exchange Crypto.com’s reserve ratios show that investors’ assets are safely backed. Last week, Binance’s auditor Mazars cut ties with the exchange, raising questions about the exchange’s reserves, or lack thereof."
547,9,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/22/sec-calls-ftt-exchange-token-a-security/,SEC Calls FTT Exchange Token a Security,"The complaint against Alameda's Caroline Ellison and FTX's Gary Wang contains allegations that FTX's exchange token, FTT, constitutes an investment contract.",2022-12-22,"FTX's exchange token FTT was sold as an investment contract and thus is a ""security,"" the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a complaint filed late Wednesday, in a move that is sure to have a wide-ranging impact on the industry.
""If demand for trading on the FTX platform increased, demand for the FTT token could increase, such that any price increase in FTT would benefit holders of FTT equally and in direct proportion to their FTT holdings,"" the SEC wrote in its complaint. ""The large allocation of tokens to FTX incentivized the FTX management team to take steps to attract more users onto the trading platform and, therefore, increase demand for, and increase the trading price of, the FTT token.""
The SEC made the claim in a complaint filed against FTX co-founder Gary Wang and former Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison.
In the complaint, it highlighted that FTX would use proceeds from the token sale to fund the development, marketing, business operations and growth of FTX while using language to emphasize that FTT is an ""investment"" with profit potential.
""The FTT materials made clear that FTX’s core management team’s efforts would drive the growth and ultimate success of FTX,"" the complaint read.
FTT's ""buy-and-burn"" program was also mentioned. This initiative, used by many other exchange tokens, is akin to a stock buyback where revenue from FTX would repurchase and burn FTT, thus increasing its value.
Ellison and Wang have both pled guilty to the various charges brought before them, and are not contesting the SEC's allegations, the agency said in a press release.
The two are also facing Justice Department and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) charges related to their conduct at FTX and Alameda, respectively. ""FTT investors had a reasonable expectation of profiting from FTX’s efforts to deploy investor funds to create a use for FTT and bring demand and value to their common enterprise."" the SEC added.
The price of other exchange tokens don't appear to be moving on the news. The price of Binance's BNB token remained stagnant after the news broke, declining 0.17% during the Asia morning to $248, according to CoinDesk data. Huobi's HT token is down 2% to $5.29, while OKX's OKB token is up 1.3% to $22.82.
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 2022, 04:02 UTC): Updates throughout. Adds pricing of BNB, OKB, HT."
548,24,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/22/ftxs-blockfolio-stake-was-paid-for-mostly-in-ftt-bloomberg/,FTX's Blockfolio Stake Was Paid for Mostly in FTT: Bloomberg,Around 94% of the $84 million FTX paid for its majority stake in Blockfolio was in the FTT token it invented.,2022-12-22,"Bankrupt cryptocurrency exchange FTX used its own token, FTT, to fund the $84 million purchase of a majority stake in trading platform Blockfolio in 2020, Bloomberg reported Thursday.
Around 94% of the amount was in the token invented by FTX, according to the report, which cited financial documents. The deal gave FTX a 52% stake in the trading platform.
FTT was at the center of the downfall of the company founded by Sam Bankman-Fried after CoinDesk revealed in early November that sister firm Alameda Research's balance sheet was full of the token, exposing the parlous state of its finances and the close ties between the two.
Bankman-Fried's crypto empire rapidly disintegrated and the disgraced former CEO now faces criminal charges in the U.S., including wire fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering and violating campaign finance laws.
FTX did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for further comment.
Read more: SEC Calls FTT Exchange Token a Security"
549,669,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/12/22/the-final-word-on-decentralands-numbers/,The Final Word on Decentraland’s Numbers,Counting users in the metaverse is tough. CoinDesk scoured and analyzed multiple data sources to distill an answer.,2022-12-22,"Determining the population of Decentraland on an average day, or at events like its Music Festival, is a difficult task because the metaverse is fraught with bots.
CoinDesk worked with data company Atlas Corp. to create a number that reflects what we believe is an accurate count of active players in this metaverse.
810: The active population of Decentraland on an average day, according to our research.
3,668: Number of active users with a non-fungible token in their wallet at the Metaverse Music Festival.
Is it 38? 650? 7,000?
It’s tough doing a census of the metaverse.
Try as we might, CoinDesk, in the eyes of Decentraland’s fans, just couldn’t get the numbers right.
Metaverse platforms such as The Sandbox and Decentraland present a challenge of sorting bots from real people, and then even real people can be inactive or AFK, short for “away from keyboard” for hours, days, even weeks. One way to filter out bots is to filter users by those with non-fungible tokens (NFT), which also weeds out “tourists” who pop in for a quick look and leave without meaningful interaction. In addition, it can be argued that those users with NFTs matter the most because in a Web3 metaverse like Decentraland, users with NFTs such as ones that denote ownership of real estate in Decentraland (LAND) or wearable items that unlock some of the more popular experiences like ICE Poker are the ones who are most active in the platform, and certainly are the most valuable to the ecosystem’s success.
Another challenge in determining how many active users there are in Decentraland, despite there being an abundance of open-source data available on the blockchain, comes down to the fact that Decentraland and MANA token holders have a vested interest to make sure this number appears as large as possible. Certainly, publishers including Electronic Arts or Activision Blizzard want to see a high level of active players on their games such as Battlefield or Call of Duty, but their stocks have other fundamentals behind them and don’t rely on the rise and fall of a single game or platform. These games also don’t have the problem of idle bots that hang out to inflate the player base.
Hop into a session of either of these traditional games and you’ll be greeted with action from the moment you arrive. But log into Decentraland and you’re dropped into an apparent ghost town. There are players on there, and more in certain areas, but are they active?
So in order to figure out just how many active users there are on the platform we used every available tool out there to try and track this down, from DappRadar to Atlas Corp.’s data repository (which powers DCL-Metrics), to the open-source Catalyst Nodes Monitor, DappRadar and Nansen. We even tracked how many players went to the much-hyped Metaverse Music Festival thanks to Atlas Corp.’s data.
It’s important to remember that with one exception, which we’ll address later, these aren’t CoinDesk’s numbers. We’re reporting them directly from the source.
Here are the results:
Now we’ll dive into the details.
38 (Original), 775 (Revised)
In the days that followed CoinDesk’s publication of DappRadar’s estimated daily active users in Decentraland, community members were quick to defend their beloved metaverse platform.
Some Twitter users called the story “fake news,” “poorly researched,” and that the “PayPal should fine [CoinDesk] $2,500” for spreading misinformation.
The metaverse may still be a new place, but it certainly is not a lonely one. ❤️

Defining 'Active Users' in the metaverse can be tricky and varied approaches can result in the spread of misinformation.

Let's dive into what this means👇
The chaos that brewed on Crypto Twitter led Decentraland to publish its strategy to define an active user of the platform.
It said in a tweet that it counts its “active users” as individuals who move from one “parcel” of land to another during the span of their gameplay, rather than tracking smart contract interactions through wallet data. Given this definition, it pointed out that it has 60,000 “monthly active users.”
The same day, DappRadar issued a statement reframing its data collection process, changing the metric of “Daily Active Users” to “Unique Active Wallets,” to more specifically define smart contract transactions within the metaverse world.
However, despite Decentraland’s clarification and DappRadar’s statement, some users pointed out that in the greater context of gaming platform user metrics, the metaverse platform’s numbers appeared low.
60k is still rather unimpressive.
Given it being a whole world is 60 thousand people a lot?
Seems like you could do quite a bit, too quite far and never see anyone outside the lobby.
“[60,000] is still rather unimpressive. Given it being a whole world, is [60,000] people a lot?” said Twitter user @JbaumannD.
Decentraland said in a tweet that its user numbers have been lower than the “early metaverse hype of late 2021,” and that the community behind the platform is slowly building.
What started as a handful of Decentraland developers pointing out the inaccuracy of the platform’s low numbers eventually led users to create a meme, expressing their undying love for the metaverse, no matter how many users it might have. Creating the hashtag #38DAUs, users encouraged community members to play games, attend upcoming events and interact with each other in Decentraland.
In truth, this #38DAUs story has already grown into the meme that it is.

But wouldn't it be so much better if we could flip this into an opportunity; where the happenings of this pioneering, decentralized space are accurately documented in style? 🤔

Your move @CoinDesk. pic.twitter.com/eZC6r447jw
“Wouldn't it be so much better if we could flip this into an opportunity; where the happenings of this pioneering, decentralized space are accurately documented in style?” said Sean Ellul, co-founder of Web3 design firm Metaverse Architects, said in a tweet.
Ellul is a vocal Decentraland community member, advocating for developers and bolstering the community. In November, Ellul authored a governance proposal to pause its grants program in light of the FTX collapse.
While some Decentraland users come to the platform to play games or attend events, others are inspired by the community that’s associated with being an “active user.”
Matthew McMillian, founder of metaverse game Dice Masters and co-founder of Web3 social platform DCL Dating, told CoinDesk that the major reason for his presence in Decentraland is the community within the metaverse. He said in the beginning of his exploration of the platform he spent eight to 12 hours a day in Decentraland, making connections with other users while there.
“I try to go to different metaverses, and I haven't really seen a community that's as passionate and together as I've seen within the Decentraland community,” McMillian told CoinDesk. “If creators can build their communities and then start building economies around their communities, we're all you know, kind of contributing to the same thing that it's, like … we can create a real economy.”
While the community might keep some users coming back to Decentraland, its robust lineup of brand activations in 2022 welcomed new avatars to the platform.
March’s Metaverse Fashion Week brought in Estée Lauder, Dolce & Gabbana, and Forever 21 to host a week-long digital wearable experience. October’s Metaverse Music Festival included performances from Ozzy Ozbourne, Dillon Francis and Soulja Boy. Additionally, Decentraland has been home to activations such as Snapple’s Bodega, and Norway’s central tax authority’s office.
On Dec. 16, Bing Crosby’s estate opened its Winter Wonderland in Decentraland. The activation features holiday games, digital Christmas sweaters that avatars can wear and a museum dedicated to Crosby’s life. Crosby was “a firm believer in the wonders of technology,” according to Harry Crosby, the singer’s son.
Rob Dippold, partner and president of Digital Strategy for Primary Wave Music, the company that partnered with Crosby’s estate to host the activation, told CoinDesk that the 10 day-long activation aims to bring a new life to Crosby’s work and enable fans “to easily experience the wonders of a metaverse for the first time.”
While the “wonders” may come and go, all pop-ups must come to an end. So the question remains: While these ephemeral experiences in the metaverse may attract new users, what entices them to come back?
810 (Oct. 7, 2022 snapshot)
3668 (Metaverse Festival, NFT holder)
6,080 (Metaverse Festival, no NFT)
One of the loudest critics of CoinDesk’s reporting of DappRadar’s numbers was Miami-based Atlas Corp., calling it misinformation. In the initial aftermath of CoinDesk's report on DappRadar’s numbers, Atlas Corp. said that there were 8,000-10,000 daily active users on Decentraland.
While an article by PC Gamer called out that DCL Metrics (where Atlas Corp.’s data is published) is “a platform created by Decentraland to report user data, so take it with a grain of salt,” that isn’t entirely accurate and lacks an understanding of how decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) operate and fund things.
Atlas Corp. and DCL Metrics are both funded by grants from the Decentraland DAO that were proposed and voted on by holders of one of the DAO’s governance tokens, MANA, NAMES or LAND. This isn’t the same as Decentraland’s executives funding it themselves – it’s an arm’s length operation.
In fact, as Atlas Corp.’s co-founder, Avi Aisenberg, explained in an interview, it was a bit of an uphill battle to get the Decentraland Foundation to respect the need for transparency.
“If I had a single word to describe the Foundation it is opaque, which as you can imagine makes it difficult to build relationships. There is little public information on how it’s structured, operated, funded, etc. Over the course of two years, through our own investigative research, we’ve been able to learn a lot and it’s only added fuel to the Atlas Corp. fire,” he said via email.
Aisenberg said the Decentraland Foundation didn’t view transparency as important in the past, and Atlas Corp. effectively goaded it to begin sharing data – a forced transparency that benefits the community.
“Our methods are known yet we’ve had to stand our ground on multiple occasions to ensure access to the data is open, preventing breaking changes that would ultimately lock out the community from having the same level of access to the data as the Foundation and the DAO node operators,” Aisenberg continued. “I often wonder what it is that team was up to in the past.”
When covering numbers from DappRadar and other tools, CoinDesk reported exactly what was being presented. But for Atlas Corp.’s numbers, more work was required. This is the exception to directly presenting the source's raw numbers we mentioned at the start.
While Atlas Corp. advertises 8,000-10,000 active users that number needs to be picked apart in order to get an accurate figure of active users. There are a few red flags, including the huge variance of the 8,000-10,000 figure from the other data sources, as well as the number of “Marathon Users” on DCL-Metrics, which shows a large group of users are spending close to 24 hours on the platform. Finally, there are a high number of users that are listed as “away from keyboard” (AFK) in some of the scenes, including the most popular location, ICE Poker:
So in order to account for all of this we need to perform some filtering on the raw JSON (a type of database file used for web applications) provided by Atlas Corp. of a snapshot from Oct. 7, 2022, which contained a list of wallet IDs and time on site. We used a Python Script to convert this into an Excel file while extracting user names and the presence of NFTs and aligning this into columns.
In order to find a more realistic number, we wanted to filter the following:
Figuring out the time spent “away from keyboard” (AFK). We did this by subtracting the average time spent from the average time spent away from keyboard, which DCL-Metrics provides in its ‘scenes’ section. We then averaged it out across the entire set of scenes. The result is 24 minutes, which we rounded up to 25.
The presence of an NFT in a Decentraland wallet is also an effective proxy of who is really an active user, as earlier noted. An NFT is needed to play ICE Poker, for example, though the NFT can be bought or borrowed from another player. If someone is playing with a delegated NFT, it will not appear in that person's wallet, but this does not materially affect CoinDesk's overall analysis. This metric filters out some of the casual users that treat Decentraland like a Web2 product and also eliminates many of the bots.
After applying filters via Google Sheets for both of these attributes we got a number back: 810.
A Google Sheet demonstrating all of our work is available to review here.
For Decentraland’s Music Festival we took a slightly different approach. Given that this event also serves as a ""sales funnel"" for Decentraland, we decided to generate numbers that include those that have and do not have an NFT in their wallet.
Atlas Corp. provided us with JSON files in a similar structure to the Oct. 7 snapshot that listed out the wallet ID and time spent across all of the scenes (there was an area called Main Stage and On Site) and the multiple dates.
We applied the same Python script to sort them into an Excel sheet and then to Google sheets. From there we used the same time filters to eliminate those that spent over 25 minutes and those that did/did not have an NFT. This time range was still a reasonable metric as most of the sets were 20-30 minutes long.
Our data shows that there were 3,668 users at the festival who also had an NFT.
The data shows that there were 6,080 users in total when the NFT filter was not applied. This larger number is expected given the high profile of the event.
The other two tools that we used to determine the number of active users on Decentraland are Nansen and Catalyst Nodes Monitor.
Nansen’s Entity Billboard tool attempts to track the number of active users on individual platforms, everything from Uniswap to LooksRare, by looking at the activity on their respective smart contracts. Nansen stresses that this tool is very much in beta. In total, it tracks 3553 smart contracts across Ethereum and Polygon.
During our snapshot period, Nansen reported that there were 526 users on Decentraland on Oct. 7.
While some of the same criticism for DappRadar’s numbers could be applied, the fact that it seems to align with the number from Atlas Corp. would suggest that DappRadar’s numbers are more accurate than its critics suggest. After all, the key to finding out any number is the process of triangulation.
On the other hand, Catalyst Nodes Monitor takes a slightly different approach. It tracks the load on each of its servers which it calls catalysts. Atlas Corp.’s Aisenberg did provide some criticism of this method as there are nodes that remain untracked by the platform, so the real figure is possibly higher than captured.
Catalyst Nodes’ numbers show there were 600 users on Decentraland as of Oct 7. This figure comes from a scraped average across the morning, evening, and overnight.
Throughout this process, we tried hard to look at Decentraland from purely a quantitative, not qualitative, perspective. After all, taste is subjective but numbers don’t lie.
But it’s hard not to think about Decentraland in the qualitative: Is this a good game?
When speaking with Atlas Corp.’s Aisenberg, he likened it to ""Westworld.""
“On the most fundamental level, you have people jumping into worlds, and interacting with scenes that are built by other people. They don’t know how it works on a technical level necessarily nor do they care, and they are able to walk around and choose their adventure,” he told CoinDesk in an interview.
In Westworld’s fictional robotic playground, tourists can unleash their beastly and carnal desires to kill or fornicate to their heart’s desire. Reviews of the show equated it to an edition of Grand Theft Auto set in the wild west, with the show exploring hedonism and the horror of virtualized reality.
Though in Decentraland, you can’t do anything like that.
Whereas Grand Theft Auto V built a living simulacrum of Los Angeles and opened it up to online battles and the ability to complete missions with friends (it even has an online economy that’s currently suffering from inflation), Decentraland feels limited. Its activities are limited to walking around, playing poker, perhaps popping into a brand activation and going to an online concert. At the concert, you watch a video with friends in 3D or see a crudely-rendered concert animation that looks like it’s from the Playstation 2 era. We must admit our team enjoyed briefly jumping around together in a virtual winter wonderland, but we’re also unlikely to plan another group activity in Decentraland.
As of September 2021, GTA V has earned its developer $6.4 billion in revenue across 150 million units sold, with yearly expansion pack downloadable content, as players are still obsessed with dishing out wanton violence in its virtual city. Decentraland, at its peak when the token was worth $5.85, had a market cap of nearly $10 billion despite gameplay that most players would find boring. Now, with 93% of its value evaporating, that market cap is closer to $575 million and token with 30 cents.
CoinDesk got a lot of flack from crypto Twitter for reporting on the number of users on Decentraland, but even if after our analysis, you still believe in the highest number of 10,000 daily users, there’s still a long way to go to achieve the kind of mass success of games like GTA or Call of Duty, or mass adoption of online worlds like Roblox and Minecraft.
UPDATE (Jan. 3, 19:48 UTC): An NFT is required to play ICE Poker, but an earlier version of this story did not reflect the ability of NFT owners to delegate their NFTs. Players that have purchased an NFT will have the collectible reflected in their wallet, while players that have NFTs delegated to them from another player will not. However, this does not have a material impact on our count of the number of active users in Decentraland."
550,1052,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/22/crypto-markets-today-federal-judge-releases-bankman-fried-on-250-bail/,Crypto Markets Today: Federal Judge Releases Bankman-Fried on $250M Bond,"The bond was secured by his parent's Palo Alto house, where he was told he could stay.",2022-12-22,"A federal judge agreed to release former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried after he appeared in U.S. federal court in New York on Thursday on charges that he was the mastermind behind the fraudulent and illicit movement of customer funds inside his former crypto empire. The judge set bail at $250 million and his release was secured with a bond.
This article originally appeared in Crypto Markets Today, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter diving into what happened in today's crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Bankman-Fried, who was brought to the U.S. overnight by the Federal Bureau of Investigation after his extradition from the Bahamas court cleared on Wednesday, arrived at the courthouse in New York to face the U.S. felony charges. The case in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York centers on accusations of fraud, money laundering and campaign-finance violations.
Bankman-Fried's release was secured by equity in his parents' Palo Alto, California, home, and a long list of requirements was included for him to remain free while he faces charges. He's not allowed to make financial transactions for more than $1,000, can't open new lines of credit, can't leave the house except to exercise and must go through substance-abuse and mental-health treatment, according to the agreement.
The former CEO arrived at court in a crumpled suit jacket, and the sound of his restraints was audible in the quiet courtroom. When asked if he agreed to the conditions of release, he nodded. He was then instructed to answer aloud, and he looked at his lawyer before saying, ""Yes, I do.""
Prosecutors have been closing in on the disgraced crypto frontman, inking plea deals inside the FTX inner circle. Caroline Ellison, the former CEO of FTX’s sister company Alameda Research, and Gary Wang, the other co-founder of FTX, pleaded guilty to federal charges and also admitted guilt in securities violations, according to statements from U.S. prosecutors and regulators late Wednesday.
The cooperation of Ellison and Wang – who admitted to playing active roles in the company’s fraud – is likely to be key in the case against Bankman-Fried. They’ve admitted that the senior management was aware of lawbreaking in the movement of customer funds between the two firms.
Bitcoin (BTC): The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently trading at $16,779, down 0.06% in the past 24 hours. The bitcoin price dropped as low as $16,566 midday Thursday before erasing the losses with a V-shaped recovery. Analysis of past data by Delphi Digital shows that bitcoin tends to lead major stock market bottoms by at least six weeks. ""History shows that, on average, BTC has topped ~48 days and bottomed ~10 days before the SPX [S&P 500],"" Delphi's strategists, led by Kevin Kelly, wrote in a 2023 preview sent to clients on Wednesday
Ether (ETH): The second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization followed BTC’s trajectory, trading at around $1,214.
By Glenn Williams Jr.
It’s challenging to find anything positive for crypto prices in economic data released on Thursday.
Strong jobs data and economic growth lead to higher prices, increasing the Federal Reserve’s motivation to put a lid on all three. This in turn leads to a decline in asset prices, impacting both traditional and digital assets.
Investors in traditional equities should expect to see a negative reaction to positive data as well. Investors in digital assets should keep in mind that both bitcoin and ether maintain strong correlations with the S&P 500 and Nasdaq.
Ultimately, the economy is still doing too well for the Federal Reserve to see positive signs in fighting inflation. Oddly enough, until the U.S economy starts performing poorly, asset prices are likely to suffer.
Read the full technical take here.
Listen 🎧: Today’s ""CoinDesk Markets Daily"" podcast discusses the latest market movements and a look at Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt and Nike, Starbucks, Reddit and many other consumer-focused brands have chosen to partner with them to create their Web3 experiences.
Crypto Firm Orthogonal Trading Said to Be in Provisional Liquidation After Maple Defaults
Tron’s Justin Sun was secret top client of crypto asset manager Valkyrie
Alameda's Caroline Ellison, FTX's Gary Wang Plead Guilty to DOJ 'Fraud' Charges, Also Settle With SEC, CFTC
Craig Wright Signals He's Given Up On Convincing Courts He Invented Bitcoin
Europe’s Last Bitcoin Mining Refuge Is No Longer Viable
Aave DAO Votes to Integrate Chainlink Proof of Reserves to Tighten Network Security
CORRECTION (Dec. 22 22:10 UTC): Corrects the bail dollar amount to $250 million."
551,69,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/22/alameda-chief-caroline-ellison-ftxs-gary-wang-plead-guilty-to-fraud-charges/,"Alameda's Caroline Ellison, FTX's Gary Wang Plead Guilty to DOJ 'Fraud' Charges, Also Settle With SEC, CFTC",FTX's Bankman-Fried was charged and arrested last week.,2022-12-22,"Former Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison and FTX co-founder Gary Wang pleaded guilty to charges tied to FTX's collapse, U.S. Attorney Damian Williams announced Wednesday night.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) also announced charges against the two, saying Ellison manipulated the price of FTT, an exchange token issued by FTX, at exchange founder Sam Bankman-Fried’s direction.
The duo are cooperating with investigators, Williams announced. The U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York (SDNY) did not specify what they were being charged with. Court records were not immediately available.
FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was charged with eight crimes by the SDNY earlier this month after he was arrested in Nassau. The charges include money laundering, wire fraud, securities fraud and campaign finance violations. He is being extradited to the U.S., Williams confirmed in his statement, saying the FTX founder was in FBI custody and would appear in court ""as soon as possible.""
Read more: Bankman-Fried’s Cabal of Roommates in the Bahamas Ran His Crypto Empire – and Dated. Other Employees Have Lots of Questions
In a statement, SEC Deputy Enforcement Director Sanjay Wadhwa said the three “were active participants in a scheme to conceal material information from FTX investors, including through the efforts of Mr. Bankman-Fried and Ms. Ellison to artificially prop up the value of FTT, which served as collateral for undisclosed loans that Alameda took out from FTX pursuant to its undisclosed, and virtually unlimited, line of credit.""
Highlighted in the complaint are multiple times when Bankman-Fried made public statements, and provided investors with documentation via audited financial statements, that Alameda received no preferential treatment from FTX.
""Given their involvement in the fraudulent scheme outlined herein, Defendants knew or were reckless in not knowing that these statements to investors were false and misleading and that they were important to FTX’s investors,"" the complaint reads.
""By surreptitiously siphoning FTX’s customer funds onto the books of Alameda, defendants hid the very real risks that FTX’s investors and customers faced,” added Wadha in a press release.
Ellison was a close confidant of Bankman-Fried's, and has been targeted by prosecutors for her role in manipulating FTX's exchange token FTT, which Alameda had used as collateral for investments. In early December Ellison, who is thought to reside in Hong Kong or Nassau, was spotted in Manhattan at a coffee shop leading many to suspect she was working with authorities.
Read more: Sam Bankman-Fried Is Being Extradited Wednesday, Bahamas Attorney General Says
Shortly after, Ellison retained the law firm WilmerHale to represent herself. WilmerHale counts Stephanie Avakian, a former director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, as one of its top attorneys.
FTX came under pressure after the CEO of crypto exchange Binance on Nov. 6 said he planned to sell his remaining holdings of FTX’s FTT token.
The SEC case noted that Ellison tweeted an offer to buy Binance's entire stake of FTT for $22, at the direction of Bankman-Fried. Other tweets from Ellison about the integrity of Alameda's balance sheet, in a response to a CoinDesk article, were also at the behest of Bankman-Fried, the complaint said.
""If you participated in misconduct at FTX or Alameda, now is the time to get ahead of it. We are moving quickly and our patience is not eternal,"" Williams said.
For its part, the CFTC made similar allegations against Wang and Ellison, saying Ellison committed fraud and made “material misrepresentations” tied to the FTT sales, while alleging Wang “allowed Alameda to maintain an essentially unlimited line of credit on FTX.”
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 2022, 04:39 UTC): Adds additional information throughout.
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 2022, 02:30 UTC): Adds additional information.
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 02:40 UTC): Adds SEC, CFTC charges."
552,197,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/22/ex-ftx-chief-sam-bankman-fried-makes-appearance-in-us-court/,Sam Bankman-Fried Released on $250M Bail Secured by Parents,"In his first court appearance since being extradited from the Bahamas, the former CEO was told he can live with his parents on $250 million bail secured by their Palo Alto house.",2022-12-22,"A federal judge agreed to release former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried after he appeared in U.S. federal court in New York on Thursday on charges that he was the mastermind behind the fraud and illicit movement of customer funds inside his former crypto empire. The judge set bail at $250 million.
Bankman-Fried, who was brought to the U.S. overnight by the Federal Bureau of Investigation after his extradition from the Bahamas cleared on Wednesday, arrived at the courthouse in New York to face the U.S. felony charges for the first time. The case in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York centers on accusations of fraud, money laundering and campaign-finance violations.
Read more: Bankman-Fried's Incredible Shrinking ‘$250 Million Bond’
Bankman-Fried's release was secured by equity in his parents' Palo Alto, California, home, and a long list of requirements was included for him to remain free while he faces charges. He's not allowed to make financial transactions for more than $1,000, can't open new lines of credit, can't leave the house except to exercise and must go through substance-abuse and mental-health treatment, according to the agreement.
Neither Bankman-Fried nor his parents were required to put up the full amount of the bond. It is sufficient to secure a bond with assets amounting to 10% of the total bond amount. The sky-high personal recognizance bond is meant to reflect the gravity of Bankman-Fried's alleged crimes and deter the former FTX CEO from jumping bail. Still, Bankman-Fried will have to secure the signatures of at least two additional individuals with ""considerable means,"" one of whom cannot be a family member, according to the case's judge. Whether Bankman-Fried has identified two additional signatories remains unclear, but he must do so before a Jan. 5 deadline.
The former CEO arrived at court in a crumpled suit jacket, and the sound of his restraints was audible in the quiet courtroom. When asked if he agreed to the conditions of release, he nodded. The judge then instructed him to answer aloud, and Bankman-Fried looked to one of his lawyers before saying, ""Yes, I do.""
Prosecutors have been closing in on the disgraced crypto frontman, inking plea deals inside the FTX inner circle. Caroline Ellison, the former CEO of FTX’s sister company Alameda Research, and Gary Wang, the other co-founder of FTX, pleaded guilty to federal charges and also admitted guilt in securities violations, according to statements from U.S. prosecutors and regulators late Wednesday.
The cooperation of Ellison and Wang – who admitted playing active roles in the company’s fraud – is likely to be key in the case against Bankman-Fried. They’ve admitted that the senior management was aware of lawbreaking in the movement of customer funds between the two firms.
Bankman-Fried has already given up his passport, and he'll be fitted with a tracking device. His parents have to secure the bail with their home-equity arrangement by Jan. 12.
Judge Gabriel Gorenstein argued that the monitoring device ""would go very far to provide assurance"" that he would stay put and that Bankman-Fried's fame would make it difficult for him to flee into hiding. Also, because his crimes were financial, the federal magistrate judge said it's unlikely he's a threat to anybody, made especially certain by his inability to move money or start a business now.
Ellison’s recently unsealed plea agreement says that as long as she’s helping the SDNY's investigation, as well as any other law enforcement agency involved in the case, she won't face further criminal prosecution apart from potential tax violations. Her bail was set at $250,000, and she has to forfeit her travel documents.
The charges against Bankman-Fried’s FTX cohorts further illuminated the illicit flow of customer money between FTX and Alameda, the trading firm Bankman-Fried also founded, and it described how the senior executives falsely propped up the apparent value of FTT, the exchange’s native token.
Ellison and Wang also settled enforcement actions with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). In the SEC case, it listed FTT as a security – another shot across the bow in the industry’s standoff with the securities regulator.
“Caroline Ellison and Sam Bankman-Fried schemed to manipulate the price of FTT, an exchange crypto security token that was integral to FTX, to prop up the value of their house of cards,” SEC Chair Gary Gensler said in a Wednesday night statement. “Until crypto platforms comply with time-tested securities laws, risks to investors will persist.”
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 2022, 18:56 UTC): Adds details about Bankman-Fried's bail agreement.
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 2022, 19:12 UTC): Adds further details about Bankman-Fried's court appearance.
CORRECTION (Dec. 22, 2022 20:27 UTC): Fixes the date in the picture caption.
UPDATE (Dec. 22, 2022, 19:44 UTC): Adds further details about Bankman-Fried's bail requirements."
553,762,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/22/first-mover-asia-most-cryptos-stay-flat-like-a-windless-lake-but-a-popsicle-makes-waves/,"First Mover Asia: Most Cryptos Stay Flat Like a Windless Lake, but a Popsicle Makes Waves.","Plus: Sam Reynolds questions the logic of calls to ban crypto, arguing that it has little chance of causing problems in traditional finance.",2022-12-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: The action was in Popsicle's ICE token against mostly flat trading for crypto markets including bitcoin.
Insights: Crypto has yet to cause a fiat financial crisis. So why is there talk of banning it? asks Sam Reynolds.
The heat is elsewhere as bitcoin hibernates
By Brad Keoun
Cryptocurrencies were barely budging in early Asia hours, even after a decent day of gains in U.S. stocks on Wednesday.
The benchmark CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) of digital assets was down 0.3% over the past 24 hours. Bitcoin was trading flat, just above $16,800.
""Bitcoin isn't getting much of a boost from the positive risk-on environment that is running through Wall Street,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst at the foreign-exchange brokerage Oanda, wrote Wednesday in a note.
The hot action was in the decentralized finance (DeFI) protocol Popsicle Finance's ICE token, which tripled over the past 24 hours after the controversial yet prolific blockchain developer Daniele Sestagalli said he was returning to the project after a hiatus.
Crypto has yet to cause a fiat financial crisis. Why the talk of bans?
By Sam Reynolds
Without a doubt, the digital asset industry is in the depths of a market that looks a lot like 2008. One could even say that the elaborate DeFi protocols with questionable collateralization accelerated the market decline, in the same way that exotic derivative vehicles like collateralized debt obligations (CDO) made the 2008 crisis worse.
But the damage is limited to crypto. There’s no evidence to suggest that some form of contagion has materialized that has spread over to the TradFi markets. Certainly, macroeconomic factors like interest rates and the strength of the dollar have impacted crypto, but so far this is a one-way street.
The establishment sees it differently.
In a recent speech, India's central bank Governor Shaktikanta Das forecasted that the next financial crisis would start with crypto and thus, it should be banned.
""Our view is that it should be prohibited because if you try to regulate it and allow it to grow, please mark my words, the next financial crisis will come from private cryptocurrencies,"" CoinDesk reported Das as saying. ""They have no underlying value. They have huge inherent risks for our macro economic and financial stability. I [have] yet to hear any credible argument about what public good or what public purpose it serves.""
Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), the U.S. Senate Banking Committee chairman, made a similar argument during a recent appearance on the television news program ""Meet the Press"" but was able to (correctly) say that this would be difficult as it would simply force crypto to move entirely offshore.
The financial crisis both are referring to is a loss of state control of money. This was also a theme in the white paper for China’s central bank digital currency (CBDC).
While India has liberalized capital controls in recent years, they still exist. It maintains strict control over the nation’s money supply under the auspices of fighting inflation – which could be lethal for an emerging market with a large percentage of low earners.
The U.S. doesn’t like crypto because it's a headache for its hegemonic ambitions. In a world that largely trades in dollars, U.S. control over the money supply means it can prosecute crimes when there is only a marginal connection to the country (see: Huawei, and BitMex).
For lawmakers in both countries, it would be easier if crypto just ""went away."" Even after a year where there was a trifecta of calamity — Terra, Three Arrows Capital and FTX — bitcoin is still at $16,800, and the broader crypto market cap is just north of $800 billion.
Crypto has weathered the storm that macroeconomic events and black swans brought upon it. Although it continues to be in the crosshairs of regulators, its problems have yet to cross the chasm into traditional finance (TradFi). If they really want to ban crypto, they are going to need to try a bit harder.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) United Kingdom Gross Domestic Product (QoQ)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Gross Domestic Product Annualized (Q3)
7:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:30 UTC) Bank of Japan Monetary Policy Meeting Minutes
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Sam Bankman-Fried Reportedly Set for Extradition to the US; Justin Sun on Crypto Winter
""First Mover"" covered the top stories in crypto, including Sam Bankman-Fried reportedly signing paperwork to begin the extradition process. Bernie Madoff's former attorney, Ira Lee Sorkin, weighed in. Plus, Tron founder Justin Sun discussed the chill of crypto winter as Core Scientific, one of the largest bitcoin miners, filed for bankruptcy. And Teddy Fusaro of Bitwise Asset Management provided his crypto markets outlook heading into the new year.
Is Ethereum’s Censorship Problem Taking a Turn?: New relayers and community efforts have contributed to a decline in censorship on the blockchain
Peer-to-Peer Crypto Marketplace Paxful Removes ETH From Platform: ETH has basically become a digital form of fiat thanks to its switch to a proof-of-stake validating mechanism, argued Youssef.
Craig Wright v. Peter McCormack: Judge Rules McCormack Should Pay Around $1.1M in Costs: Wright had argued that McCormack should pay the majority of costs for the legal proceedings, but then accepted to pay all McCormack's costs save for those ruled in Wright's favor.
Metaverse-First Blockchain Lamina1 Launches Rolling Fund for Web3 Builders: The layer 1 blockchain is the brainchild of Neal Stephenson, who coined the term ""metaverse"" in 1992, and Peter Vessenes, co-founder of the Bitcoin Foundation.
Bernie Madoff’s Lawyer Says Sam Bankman-Fried Should ‘Shut Up': Ira Lee Sorkin, partner at law firm Mintz & Gold, discusses why he would’ve told the disgraced CEO to “keep his mouth shut” and not speak to various media outlets after the FTX exchange filed for bankruptcy protection."
554,58,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/23/crypto-analysts-see-yellow-flag-in-us-exchanges-refusal-to-list-binances-bnb-token/,Binance Failing to Get US Exchange Listings for BNB Is Yellow Flag for Crypto Analysts,"The BNB token, with a market cap around $40 billion, has failed to win a listing on major U.S. crypto exchanges – except on Binance.US. Crypto analysts say it might be due to risks that BNB could be deemed a security by U.S. regulators.",2022-12-23,"Binance, the world’s biggest crypto exchange by trading volume, has been the focus of crypto-market speculation in recent weeks after blockchain watchers detected billions of dollars of deposit outflows, the company’s auditor begged off and reports emerged the company might be under investigation by U.S. authorities.
Such anxieties are clearly reflected in the recent downward trajectory for Binance’s in-house token, BNB: The price has tumbled about 17% this month to $245, vastly underperforming the broad CoinDesk Market Index of digital assets, which is down 5.7%. At the peak in May 2021, BNB changed hands at $690, according to data from CoinMarketCap. The token’s market capitalization has dropped to around $40 billion, from a record $116 billion at one point last year.
At the core of the concerns is whether Binance might be prone to a loss of confidence similar to November’s stunningly swift unraveling of Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX exchange. And it’s impossible to ignore that the first signs of deep distress at FTX emerged when that exchange’s own FTT token started to plunge.
So as crypto analysts home in on BNB token’s valuation, they’re scrutinizing the FTT token’s arc for any red – or yellow – flags that, in hindsight, might have tipped investors off to the market’s fragility. And a key similarity stands out: Just as FTX’s FTT token had mostly failed to get listed on major U.S. crypto exchanges, so is BNB absent from a large number of U.S. exchanges. (It is listed on Binance.US.)
Some crypto analysts speculate that major U.S. exchanges might have steered clear of a BNB listing for fear of running afoul of regulators. Any issues on the regulatory front could also represent a risk for holders of the token.
“Exchanges probably do not list BNB as they see it as a security given the centralization of their network,” said Lucas Outumuro, head of research at IntoTheBlock, in an interview with CoinDesk. “It's probably not worth U.S. exchanges risking listing a security especially if it's a competitor's token.”
The risk was underscored this week when the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission labeled FTX’s FTT token as a security in a complaint.
The document pointed to the existence of FTT's ""buy-and-burn"" program as an example of how the token might be intended to serve as an investment. Such programs might be compared to a stock buyback, where companies redeem their own shares from the open market to reduce the outstanding supply and thus to increase their value.
Binance also offers a burn program, introduced in late 2021, labeled “BNB Burn,” and detailed on its website and updated as recently as Oct. 13.
“BNB is a deflationary currency, which means that it maintains a stable value through burning its tokens throughout the year,” the website reads.
According to Sean Farrell, head of digital asset strategy at Fundstrat, BNB is likely not listed on most domestic exchanges due to the fact it could be “deemed a security by regulators.”
CoinDesk asked Binance for a comment on the lack of BNB token listings on major U.S. exchanges besides Binance.US, and also if executives at the firm were worried that it might be deemed a security. No response was received as of press time. In an earlier communication, the representative noted that BNB was listed on several major crypto exchanges outside the U.S.
According to Binance's website, ""BNB is the cryptocurrency coin that powers the BNB Chain ecosystem.""
""As one of the world's most popular utility tokens, not only can you trade BNB like any other cryptocurrency, you can also use BNB in a wide range of applications and use cases,"" the website reads.
In terms of utility of the token, BNB can be used ""to pay for goods and services, settle transaction fees on Binance Smart Chain, participate in exclusive token sales and more,"" according to the site. A yellow button at the bottom of the web page reads, ""Buy BNB Now."" Clicking that leads to another web page where a user can log in to Binance or sign up for an account.
According to CoinGecko, the digital-asset markets pricing site, BNB is listed on tens of crypto exchanges, including KuCoin, Huobi and OKX.
The U.S. exchange Kraken lists over 120 tokens but does not offer BNB to its customers.
A Kraken spokesperson said to CoinDesk that “Kraken is an agnostic player in the crypto market” and that it “has a robust asset selection and listing procedure that ensures assets receive the analysis and vetting they deserve, which includes a rigorous compliance, legal and security process.”
A representative for Coinbase, which also has not listed BNB, told CoinDesk, ""If we haven’t listed a popular asset yet, it is likely due to various reasons which may include: We have concluded that the asset does not meet our listing standards, we do not have enough information about the asset, additional technical integration work is required, or we do not support the network for the given token standard.”
“BNB certainly is not in a position of strength, which will likely continue as thorny questions regarding Binance remain,” wrote Collin Howe, derivatives trader at B2C2 in a Friday note."
555,94,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/23/crypto-funding-plunged-in-2022-but-vc-head-sees-areas-of-opportunity/,"Crypto Funding Plunged in 2022, but VC Head Sees Areas of Opportunity for 2023","CoinFund’s David Pakman talks FTX, DeFi and the way forward.",2022-12-23,"Venture capital investments in blockchain startups soared to a record $25.2 billion in 2021, driven by bullish optimism and financing surges for non-fungible tokens (NFT) and decentralized finance projects. In 2022, funding slowed dramatically and is projected to be about one-third of 2021’s record, following a wave of fallen companies including hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, lender Celsius Network and exchange giant FTX.
David Pakman, managing partner and venture investing head at crypto-focused venture capital firm CoinFund, discussed in an interview with CoinDesk what the investment landscape will look like in 2023 and what crypto verticals could emerge stronger in the post-FTX world.
""Crypto has seen a lot of self-harm in 2022 and it feeds the narrative that we’re already fighting against: ‘Oh, scammy people doing scammy things.’ And here’s yet another example,” said Pakman, noting that the downfall of FTX was due to human behavior, not technological failure. “Hopefully, we’re weeding them out of the system.""
CoinFund was an early investor in FTX and had a small amount of equity, which has now been written to zero, said Pakman. The firm didn’t hold any FTT tokens but had what he believed was a “very small trade” in progress when the exchange collapsed. The FTX investment predated Pakman, who joined CoinFund last year after spending 13 years at tech and healthcare-focused venture capital firm Venrock.
CoinFund announced a $300 million Web3-focused fund in August, and regulatory filings last month revealed plans to raise $250 million for a seed investments fund, indicating the firm has continued to raise money despite the macro environment.
“We were nervous even at the beginning of this year, and getting more nervous as the year went on given the macro environment and the stuff happening in crypto.” Pakman said of CoinFund’s own fundraising efforts. “But we’re very fortunate that we have [limited partners] that actually prefer to see us investing in this pricing environment.”
Bear markets can benefit venture capital firms because shakier markets lead to lower valuations and more attractive entry points for potential investors
Pakman thinks crypto investments will continue focusing on areas that were in progress before all of the turbulence, including layer 1 and layer 2 blockchains, NFTs, gaming and the Web3 development stack that’s maturing enough to entice Web2 developers to make the jump. The collapse of a centralized exchange has also put more focus on decentralized finance (DeFi).
""The FTX and Celsius stuff – and all the other failures – might be creating renewed interest in productizing DeFi in a way that’s easier to access by both institutions and individuals. Because DeFi is not super easy to access,” said Pakman.
“How do we get out of this loop of bad events happen – largely because of a human-led CeFi mistake – that exposes all sorts of other risky behaviors that lead to this domino effect of more companies failing?” asked Pakman, referring to centralized finance. “We don’t want lots of companies failing.”
Companies should focus on risk management and the conservative use of leverage, he said, though startups should try to avoid using leverage at all.
“Creating a startup is one of the riskiest things you can do. It almost never works,” noted Pakman.
“When you have some success, you don’t want to then bring in a bunch of extra risk by using leverage or doing other stupid things because it’s hard enough to get to a success scenario,” Pakman said. “Retire risk as you move on, don’t create more.”
Read more: 10 Predictions for the Future of Crypto in 2023"
556,110,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/27/ftxs-sam-bankman-fried-borrowed-from-alameda-to-buy-robinhood-shares/,FTX's Sam Bankman-Fried Borrowed From Alameda to Buy Robinhood Shares,Alameda took out a loan pledging those same shares as collateral.,2022-12-27,"Former FTX chief Sam Bankman-Fried borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars from Alameda Research to purchase his stake in trading app Robinhood Markets (HOOD), according to court documents.
In an affidavit provided to a Caribbean court before his arrest, Bankman-Fried said he and FTX co-founder Gary Wang together borrowed over $546 million from Alameda via promissory notes in April and May. They used that money to capitalize Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd., the shell corporation that in May bought a 7.6% stake of Robinhood.
The affidavit provides a new curveball in the three-way race to lay claim to the 56 million Robinhood shares. Crypto lender BlockFi, FTX Group and Bankman-Fried himself have all attempted to lay claim to the shares, which could be worth over $440 million.
Crypto lender BlockFi, which like FTX has filed for bankruptcy, alleged in a court document that it was owed the rights to the Robinhood shares due to a deal Bankman-Fried made in early November. The shares were pledged as collateral against a loan taken out by Alameda Research – the same firm whose funds were used to purchase the shares to begin with, according to Tuesday's filing.
FTX, a crypto exchange, filed for bankruptcy in November after revelations that Alameda, a hedge fund that Bankman-Fried also owned, was largely backed by FTT tokens, digital assets that FTX created out of thin air.
Nikhilesh De contributed reporting."
557,912,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/27/crypto-investment-firm-midas-shutting-down-platform-following-losses/,Crypto Investment Firm Midas Shutting Down Platform Following Losses,The collapse of Celsius Network and FTX led to more than 60% of Midas’ assets under management being withdrawn.,2022-12-27,"Midas Investments, an investment firm that focused on DeFi (decentralized-finance) yields, is shutting down its platform following its losses this year, according to a blog post from CEO and founder Iakov “Trevor” Levin on Tuesday.
Levin wrote that this past spring, the Midas DeFi portfolio lost $50 million, or 20% of its $250 million in assets under management, and that after the collapse of crypto lender Celsius Network and exchange FTX, 60% of the assets on Midas' platform were withdrawn.
“Based on this situation and current CeFi market conditions, we have reached the difficult decision to close the platform,” Levin wrote, referring to centralized finance.
The company will now focus on a new project that “aligns with our vision for” centralized decentralized finance (CeDeFi), Levin said.
Starting on Tuesday, Midas disabled deposits and swaps, as well as withdrawals, for some time while it makes calculations and balance adjustments. Its target is to deduct 55% from user balances held in bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and stablecoins, with the adjustment being compensated for in MIDAS tokens that can be swapped in for tokens of its new project.
“The goal of the new project is to create a win-win situation by connecting competing protocols with liquidity and offering a simplified yield to a range of DeFi and CeFi audiences,” Levin wrote.
Levin is a contributor to CoinDesk."
558,1051,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/28/digital-dollar-will-come-eventually-expert-says/,"Digital Dollar Will Come Eventually, Expert Says","Michael Greco, policy research director at the Digital Dollar Project, says the Fed needs Congress to pass the right law first.",2022-12-28,"It’s more a question of when, rather than if, a central bank digital currency (CBDC) will be established in the U.S., Michael Greco, policy research director at the Digital Dollar Project, told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” on Tuesday.
Greco said that “there is potential in the next few years” for a digital dollar in the U.S., but that the Federal Reserve is waiting for Congress to enact legislation before it can move forward. He doesn't expect Congress to pass such a law next year but said he expects the ""the conversation to advance on Capitol Hill, especially in regards to privacy"" in 2023.
Read more: Big Banks, NY Fed Start to Test Digital Tokens for 'Wholesale' Transactions
On the same program, Josh Lipsky, senior director of the Atlantic Council’s GeoEconomic Center, said that CBDCs have made “huge leaps” in other parts of the world, such as South Korea and Europe.
He said next year the European Central Bank may move forward to the pilot phase of a digital euro from a development phase, which would be a major step given the size of the European Union. He said U.S. authorities will be looking to see how the ECB tackles privacy concerns of a digital currency and how it would interact with the banking system.
He also sees the potential of a wholesale CDBC, which would be used in transactions between banks, as opposed to a retail CBDC, which would be used by consumers in everyday transactions like buying a cup of coffee.
Lipsky said that in light implosion of crypto exchange FTX, the issues that some crypto exchanges face “do not extend to central bank digital currencies.”
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article incorrectly identified Michael Greco as a lobbyist. He is a researcher.
Read more: Singapore's MAS Starts Wholesale CBDC Project Ubin+ for Cross-Border Payments"
559,911,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/28/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-drifts-lower-as-crypto-winter-continues/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Drifts Lower as Crypto Winter Continues,"ALSO: CoinDesk Columnist David Z. Morris played soothsayer about the seriousness of the allegations against Sam Bankman-Fried, the former CEO of embattled crypto exchange FTX.",2022-12-28,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin drifted lower in Tuesday trading, albeit not by much as crypto prices remained largely frozen near levels they've held for a week.
Insights: In this last week of 2022, First Mover Asia is revisiting a few of CoinDesk's (CD) best, most impactful stories from the past year. Less than a month after a CD story led to the implosion of crypto exchange giant FTX in November, Chief Insights Columnist David Z. Morris zeroed in on the seriousness of CEO Sam Bankman-Fried's offenses. The U.S. Department of Justice subsequently charged Bankman-Fried with wire fraud and other alleged crimes. After posting bail, he is confined to his parents California home except to exercise, and must wear a tracking device.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Frozen Markets, a Bitcoin Drift
By James Rubin
Bitcoin drifted lower in Tuesday trading, albeit not by much as investors continued their historical, year-end hibernation. Crypto prices remain frozen near the levels they've held for much of the past two weeks.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently changing hands at $16,700, off 1.3% over the past 24 hours but near its most recent support just under $17,000. BTC's price has remained resilient over the past two months, despite the widening fallout from the implosion of crypto exchange FTX.
In a CoinDesk TV First Mover interview, Martin Leinweber, digital asset product strategist at Market Vector Indexes, noted bitcoin's strength relative to other cryptos. ""If you look at the coins that demonstrate relative strength, which means coins that fell the least amount from the all-time high, you will notice names that nearly no one would have imagined, especially when you consider the ranking,"" Leinweber said. ""So bitcoin was not the most defensive coin, one might expect from a store of value.""
Ether was recently trading just over $1,200, also down 1.3% from Monday, same time. Most other major cryptos were slightly in the red with LINK, the token of software platform Chainlink, and CRO, the native cryptocurrency of exchange Crypto.com, each sinking more than 2%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, fell 1.15%.
Major equity indexes closed mixed after a good news, bad news day in which China announced it would allow international travelers to enter the country again but Russia said it would ban oil sales to countries that had placed a $60 per barrel price cap on it – the latest fallout from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. How the moves will affect prices worldwide is uncertain. Brent crude oil, a widely watched measure of global energy markets, was recently selling at $85 per barrel, an 11% gain over the past three weeks. The tech-heavy Nasdaq slipped 1.4%, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average ticked up slightly.
Meanwhile, FTX's sad, unsavory saga continued with documents filed in Caribbean court showing that former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars from Alameda Research to purchase his stake in trading app Robinhood Markets (HOOD).
In an affidavit before his arrest, Bankman-Fried said he and FTX co-founder Gary Wang together borrowed over $546 million from Alameda via promissory notes in April and May. They used that money to capitalize Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd., the shell corporation that in May bought a 7.6% stake of Robinhood.
The FTX crisis has renewed calls for stronger regulation some seven months after the TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin lost its dollar peg. The consequent collapse of the Terra ecosystem during the spring jolted lawmakers who had been hesitating to create stricter guidelines targeting digital assets to ratchet up their efforts. As yet, little concrete has resulted, although many crypto insiders expect changes in the year ahead and beyond to protect investors.
Market Vector Indexes' Leinweber said he would embrace stablecoin regulation. ""I welcome those regulations,"" he said. ""It will lead to more dollars in that space. There are some unregulated, poorer constructed ones. But they're also good stablecoins.""
FTX’s Collapse Was a Crime, Not an Accident
By David Z. Morris, CoinDesk Chief Insights Columnist
In the weeks since Sam Bankman-Fried’s cryptocurrency empire was revealed to be a house of lies, mainstream news organizations and commentators have often failed to give their readers a straightforward assessment of exactly what happened. August institutions including the New York Times and Wall Street Journal have uncovered many key facts about the scandal, but they have also repeatedly seemed to downplay the facts in ways that soft-pedaled Bankman-Fried’s intent and culpability.
It is now clear that what happened at the FTX crypto exchange and the hedge fund Alameda Research involved a variety of conscious and intentional fraud intended to steal money from both users and investors. That’s why a recent New York Times interview was widely derided for seeming to frame FTX’s collapse as the result of mismanagement rather than malfeasance. A Wall Street Journal article bemoaned the loss of charitable donations from FTX, arguably propping up Bankman-Fried’s strategic philanthropic pose. Vox co-founder Matthew Yglesias, court chronicler of the neoliberal status quo, seemed to whitewash his own entanglements by crediting Bankman-Fried’s money with helping Democrats in the 2020 elections – sidestepping the likelihood that the money was effectively embezzled.
Perhaps most perniciously, many outlets have described what happened to FTX as a “bank run” or a “run on deposits,” while Bankman-Fried has repeatedly insisted the company was simply overleveraged and disorganized. Both of these attempts to frame the fallout obfuscate the core issue: the misuse of customer funds.
Banks can be hit by “bank runs” because they are explicitly in the business of lending customer funds out to generate returns. They can experience a short-term cash crunch if everyone withdraws at the same time, without there being any long-term problem.
But FTX and other crypto exchanges are not banks. They do not (or should not) do bank-style lending, so even a very acute surge of withdrawals should not create a liquidity strain. FTX had specifically promised customers it would never lend out or otherwise use the crypto they entrusted to the exchange.
CoinDesk's Chief Insights Columnist David Z. Morris unpacks his latest opinion piece that argues Sam Bankman-Fried, former CEO of troubled crypto exchange FTX, is a fraud.
See also: Divisions in Sam Bankman-Fried's Crypto Empire Blur on Alameda's Balance Sheet
In reality, the funds were sent to the intimately linked trading firm Alameda Research, where they were, it seems, simply gambled away. This is, in the simplest terms, theft at a nearly unprecedented scale. While the total losses have yet to be quantified, up to one million customers could be impacted, according to a bankruptcy document.
Read the full story here
11 p.m. HKT/SGT(3 p.m. UTC): U.S. Pending Home Sales (Nov. MoM/YoY)
8 p.m. HKT/SGT(12 p.m. UTC): U.S. Mortgage Bankers Association mortgage applications (Dec. 23)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Miners Powered Off as Winter Storm Battered North America; Bitcoin Holds Near $17K
Miners across the U.S. powered down over the weekend as a powerful storm swept across North America. MarketVector Indexes Digital Asset Product Strategist Martin Leinweber shared his crypto markets analysis. Also, Akin Gump Partner Ian McGinley shared his thoughts on the latest legal developments for former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried.
Crypto Investment Firm Midas Shutting Down Platform Following Losses: The collapse of Celsius and FTX led to more than 60% of Midas’ assets under management being withdrawn.
Mango Markets Exploiter Eisenberg Arrested in Puerto Rico: Federal agents were not a fan of Avraham Eisenberg’s “highly profitable trading strategy.”
Pudgy Penguins NFTs Break All-Time Highs With Holiday Rally: A fast-rising floor price caps the once written-off collection’s banner year.
Ellison and Wang Will Be ‘Game Changers' in Bankman-Fried's Trial, Lawyer Says: The testimony of the two FTX insiders could be damning for Bankman-Fried as he fights criminal charges, according to Ian McGinley, a partner at Akin Group.
Justice Department Launches Criminal Probe Into $400M FTX Hack: Bloomberg: Experts have suggested the digital fingerprints left by the alleged hacker points to an inside job."
560,910,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/29/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-retreats-further-into-the-gloom/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Retreats Further Into the Gloom,"The largest crypto by market capitalization dropped below $16,500 at one point on Wednesday. ALSO: CoinDesk research analyst George Kaloudis ranks his top five industry annoyances with FTX topping the list.",2022-12-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and most other major cryptocurrencies spent Wednesday in the red.
Insights: In this last week of 2022, First Mover Asia is revisiting a few of CoinDesk's most noteworthy columns. In his latest Crypto Long and Short newsletter, CoinDesk research analyst George Kaloudis considered five of the most annoying events and trends in 2022. Unsurprisingly, topping his list, Kaloudis wrote of his anger at FTX.
Another Gloomy Day for Bitcoin
By James Rubin
Bitcoin added another dollop of gloom to an already gloomy year on Wednesday.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently down a percentage point over the past 24 hours to about $16,500. BTC has been clinging closer to $17,000 since mid-December amid market concerns about the latest macroeconomic uncertainties and the increased likelihood of Federal Reserve continuing to raise interest rates.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Brent Xu, founder and CEO of cross-chain DeFi (decentralized-finance) hub Umee, said that markets seem to be destined to continue their declines well into 2023. ""Markets are going to bottom out around Q2 to Q3,"" Xu said. ""We're going to see another six to 12 months of negative sentiment, possibly 18 months.""
Still, he added that he expects ""better developments"" in the long term.
Ether was recently changing hands at just under $1,200 for a second consecutive day, off more than 2% from the day before. Other major cryptos were largely in the red amid tepid trading that is typical for most assets as a year closes. SOL, the token of the Solana blockchain, and APT, the native cryptocurrency of the Aptos blockchain system were down more than 11% and 10%, respectively. The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, recently fell 1.86%.
U.S. equity indexes slipped slightly as investors chewed over the implications of China reopening its borders after months of Covid-related lockdowns. The tech-focused Nasdaq and S&P 500, which has a hefty technology component, declined 1.4% and 1.2%, respectively. Stocks usually trade sideways at this time of the year, although a massive sell-off of Tesla's (TSLA) stock this month and Southwest Airlines' (LUV) mass cancellations may alter this traditional course.
For at least one day, a couple of faintly positive stories replaced the latest developments in crypto exchange FTX's crisis among industry headlines. Bitcoin miner Argo Blockchain (ARBK) avoided filing for bankruptcy protection after agreeing to sell its Dickens Country, Texas mining facility to Galaxy Digital for $65 million and securing a $35 million loan from the crypto-focused financial-services firm.
Earlier in the day (Hong Kong time), CoinDesk also reported that MicroStrategy (MSTR), the business software vendor that was co-founded by crypto proponent Michael Saylor, has added to its bitcoin stockpile, purchasing about 2,395 bitcoins for $42.8 million between Nov. 1 and Dec. 21 through its MacroStrategy subsidiary
Umee's Xu said that the recent uptick in macroeconomic conditions and crypto price stability has been troublesome for options trading. ""If you're an options trader, not a lot of volatility,"" Xu said. ""Whenever there's any price movements, they're not going to be sustained long enough form some notable trend.
""It's just not the best time for investing in crypto assets,"" he added.
5 Crypto Things That Riled Me Up in 2022
By George Kaloudis
Enclosed are just five of the crypto-related things that got under my skin in 2022. There were far more than five, but obvious things like “the market went down” are not included because they’re not fun to write about.
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
1. The FTX/Alameda/SBF fraud
This is probably the umpteen-millionth time you have read some version of a crypto person being mad about this, but I’m still mad at FTX (for the fraud), the reckless risk-takers (for the flexing) and many Twitter-ers (for the hero worship). I think the fraud speaks for itself. The embezzlement (or whatever it was) at FTX hurt real people. Rubbing salt in the wound: I got to ask FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried some questions, months before his exchange collapsed, on a CoinDesk TV program, but I failed to touch on anything hard-hitting. We talked about the Super Bowl mostly.
Watch: New FTX Boss Condemns Management of the Crypto Exchange During Sam Bankman-Fried's Tenure
2. Crypto hedge fund founders flexing
My brain is raising at least two pitchforks for the folks at crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC). It’s one thing to be a little annoyed with highly leveraged hedge funds (like 3AC) doing risky things in general; it’s another to be annoyed at the associated flexing (i.e., “showing off”) that took place on social media and elsewhere as highly leveraged hedge funds raked in the cash the last few years.
But it was revealed during liquidation proceedings that 3AC co-founders Kyle Davies and Su Zhu paid for a $50 million superyacht with company funds all while flexing that “100K ETH is dust.” Calling 100,000 ether “dust” was calling $400 million “not a lot of money.” 3AC collapsed. Also, the superyacht was named: “Much Wow.”
Yeah, I know.
Much cringe.
Read the full story here
5 p.m. HKT/SGT(9 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank M3 Money Supply (Nov. 3 months/YoY)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. first-time jobless claims (Dec. 23)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Mango Markets Exploiter Eisenberg Arrested in Puerto Rico; Galaxy Digital Gives Argo a Lifeline
Avraham Eisenberg, the crypto investor whose ""highly profitable trading strategy"" drained DeFi trading platform Mango Markets of $110 million worth of crypto, was arrested in Puerto Rico. Plus, Galaxy will buy Argo's Helios facility for $65 million and provide a $35 million loan to help the miner amid restructuring. And, Sam Ewen, CoinDesk's SVP, head of CoinDesk Studios, cut through the Metaverse confusion to explain where the innovation stands and where it's going.
China to Launch First National ‘Digital Asset’ Marketplace: While trading digital collectibles has been popular amongst Chinese collectors through heavily regulated marketplaces, this is the country’s first official foray into NFTs.
Why Solana Was Decimated by Bankman-Fried’s Downfall: The blockchain heavily tied to the disgraced founder of FTX has been badly wounded by his unmasking. Here are the headwinds facing the formerly hot project and its SOL token.
Anonymous Twitter User Leaks 3Commas API Database: The leak comes after 3Commas repeatedly told users that they had been “phished” after widespread hacks.
FTX Users Sue for Priority Repayment and Damages in Bankruptcy Proceedings: The class-action lawsuit accuses the bankrupt crypto exchange's executives of intentionally misappropriating customer funds to fund risky strategies and their lavish lifestyles."
561,279,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/29/solana-tokens-continue-steep-slide-while-major-cryptos-stay-flat/,Solana Tokens Continue Steep Slide While Major Cryptos Stay Flat,"SOL has dropped nearly 8% in the past 24 hours, adding to a 20% slide over the past week.",2022-12-29,"Crypto markets slid a nominal 0.8% in the past 24 hours as broader equity markets grappled with renewed coronavirus fears stemming from China.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index and Japan’s Nikkei 225 had shed 1% as of Asian afternoon hours on Thursday, while the Shanghai Composite fell 0.44%. Stocks fell amid weakened risk appetite on one of the final trading days of the year, according to Bloomberg.
The bearish sentiment, however, didn't seem to affect major cryptocurrencies, with bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and several other major tokens such as polkadot (DOT), binance coin (BNB) and XRP (XRP) seeing nominal change.
Solana (SOL), however, dropped as much as 10% in the past 24 hours, adding to a 20% slide over the past week. Selling pressure on the tokens came because of their close links to disgraced FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who faces charges of fraud and misappropriation of client funds.
Thursday's decline put SOL on track for nine straight days of losses, the longest run of declines since Sept. 17, 2021, based on Messari data.
Since 2020, Bankman-Fried has been a major proponent of the Solana network, launching the decentralized exchange Serum on the then-upstart network and investing heavily in the platform's projects.
Apart from prices, the value locked on Solana-based applications has declined 98% since November last year, DefiLlama data shows. Steep falls in Solana’s metrics came after the implosion of Terra network in May and a market-wide drop in July and after Bankman-Fried's FTX problems first came to light early last month.
Alternative currencies outside of the top 20 tokens by market capitalization saw slight changes as well, except for toncoin (TON), which fell 5% over the past 24 hours, and luna classic (LUNC), which dropped 7%.
Meanwhile, premarket futures for the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 and S&P 500 both inched 0.5% higher, pointing to possible gains when the U.S. markets open on Thursday.
UPDATE (Dec. 29, 10:03 UTC): Adds SOL's streak of declines in fourth paragraph."
562,30,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/29/alameda-research-liquidated-ether-based-token-holdings-for-bitcoin-in-past-24-hours-on-chain-data-shows/,Alameda Research Liquidates Ethereum-Based Token Holdings for Bitcoin,Data from Arkham Intelligence indicated that $1.7 million worth of the tokens was sold.,2022-12-29,"Several tokens held by Sam Bankman-Fried’s embattled trading business Alameda Research were sold late on Wednesday to the tune of millions of dollars, as the firm's founders face criminal charges related to the collapse of Alameda and FTX, the crypto exchange Bankman-Fried ran.
On-chain data cited by crypto research firm Arkham Intelligence suggested $1.7 million worth of tokens from Alameda-linked wallets was sold in the open market over a span of several hours on Wednesday. That sparked concerns on Crypto Twitter that the sales would trigger a steep fall in the prices of those tokens.
Bankman-Fried denied being the source of the sales in a tweet on Friday afternoon, saying ""I'm not and couldn't be moving any of those funds; I don't have access to them anymore.""
On-chain data showed Ethereum-based tokens such as USD coin (USDC), dai (DAI), curve (CRV), ether (ETH), convex (CVX) and others were consolidated from several wallets to just two wallets and later sold for tether (USDT) stablecoin.
The value of the transactions ranged from a fraction of an ether to over 15 ether, the on-chain data shows. The holdings were then converted into bitcoin (BTC) using swapping services like FixedFloat and ChangeNow, on-chain sleuth ZachXBT noted in a tweet.
The funds are being swapped for BTC

bc1q67r2dc46ve66pe2qr9smaz5ktzefehugky5sv6
bc1qk4mnz4qkh9vfcm95z6ww9czhzjsknjr8s457mg
bc1qwx3herf245w6k9ljjfgdsngtvjsp3qs6znp8dd
bc1q7p22k0ly0pmy04ermzu76uyylveehu9cusrcnp pic.twitter.com/ueYLjQOalZ
According to Arkham Intelligence data, Alameda still holds over $112 million worth of various cryptocurrencies, down from $140 million held in mid-November, as CoinDesk previously reported.
FTX filed for bankruptcy in November after revelations that Alameda, a hedge fund that Bankman-Fried also owned, was largely backed by FTT tokens, digital assets that FTX created out of thin air.
UPDATE (Dec. 30, 19:49 UTC): Updated with tweet from Sam Bankman-Fried."
563,596,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/29/no-advisors-crypto-is-not-a-ponzi-scheme/,"No, Advisors, Crypto Is Not a Ponzi Scheme","While the FTX debacle has many Ponzi-like characteristics, most cryptocurrencies don't resemble the infamous schemes.",2022-12-29,"Since crypto exchange FTX collapsed into bankruptcy and its Ponzi-like shell game with investor money was revealed, many commentators have doubled down on their criticism of cryptocurrencies as a type of Ponzi scheme.
For those who need a review, Ponzi schemes start with an initial investment from an early round of investors, and the money is then used (and spent) for the purposes of the general partners or issuers of the investment product. When the time comes that the original investors want to withdraw their funds, their investments are returned through funds invested by subsequent rounds of investors, giving the illusion of solvency and returns.
Similarly, FTX kept making funds available to earlier investors on its exchange using the deposits of subsequent investors – those earlier investments had been swept away to Alameda Research, an affiliated hedge fund.
You're reading Crypto for Advisors, a weekly look at digital assets and the future of finance for financial advisors. Subscribe here to receive the mailing every Thursday.
The FTX revelations have led a chorus of voices – including actor Ben McKenzie and Nobel Laureate economist Paul Krugman – to allege that cryptocurrencies in general are a Ponzi scheme.
Let’s be clear: Though bad actors are using cryptocurrencies as a medium with which to conduct Ponzi-like schemes, crypto itself isn't a Ponzi scheme.
For one thing, tokens like bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) do hold value, even in down markets and don't depend on inflows of new money to pay off investors. Rather, holders of these tokens can exchange them for other items of value, or fiat currency, any time they can find a counterparty willing to take their crypto.
There is no central entity giving these tokens the illusion of value, but instead, the investing public’s willingness to pay $17,000 or $21,000 or $68,000 for one bitcoin determines the ultimate market value of the token.
The most popular cryptocurrencies are able to deliver value in and of themselves without the manipulations of a Ponzi scheme operator.
And as a reminder to financial advisors, cryptocurrencies do have fundamentals and real-world use cases.
Here are a handful of functions that cryptocurrencies provide:
As 2022 comes to a close, cryptocurrencies can be used as a medium of exchange at hundreds of retailers, including AMC Theatres, Virgin Galactic and Cheap Air. Many of these retailers use BitPay, a service that for a small fee converts crypto into the currency of a vendor’s choice within the flow of a transaction.
Holders of bitcoin can also convert their coins into fiat cash at bitcoin ATMs or via a debit card prepaid with their tokens.
And while many people argue that the volatility of bitcoin and other popular cryptocurrencies makes them unfit as a medium of exchange, stablecoins that don't fluctuate in value are on the rise.
The reputation of stablecoins was tested this year with the collapse of some “algorithmic” stablecoins like Terra/UST. However, they still have the potential to overtake paper currency by accommodating fast, safe and precise digital payments. Central banks are taking this challenge seriously by working to develop digital currencies of their own.
Using tokens for cross-border remittances continues to be one of the more popular uses for cryptocurrencies.
While many critics have lambasted the volatility and uncertainty of cryptocurrencies compared with fiat currencies like the U.S. dollar, many other international currencies suffer from high volatility and inflationary pressures far beyond those felt by the dollar.
Tokens like bitcoin are still able to move across borders faster and cheaper than fiat currency.
Blockchain technology and digital tokens are being applied to problems far beyond those involving investors, advisors, exchanges and digital broker-dealers.
The technology is being applied to issues in real estate, agriculture, healthcare, gaming and supply-chain management, among others.
Tokens, distributed through initial coin offerings, are programmable assets that use smart contracts to automatically execute transactions if certain conditions are met without the need of an intermediary. Many industries, not just financial, can benefit from smart contracts that eliminate the need for intermediaries.
In 2022, Ethereum, the blockchain represented by ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, underwent a transformation from a proof-of-work blockchain to a proof-of-stake blockchain, offering holders of ether the opportunity to generate yield by “staking” transactions on the blockchain. As a result, it has become much easier for many crypto investors to take some income out of their holdings without selling a position.
But so-called “yield-farming” opportunities have existed for several years in decentralized finance (DeFi). While some of these opportunities are rife with risk and potential fraud, others offer investors the chance to receive more income more efficiently than they would via low-risk stocks and bonds – even in the current higher interest rate regime.
Many investors are going to bet that blockchain will continue to proliferate and that the demand for cryptocurrencies will increase again, driving prices upward from their 2022 swoon. While these may often be pie-in-the-sky hopes for easy money, some credible analysts also expect that the value of major tokens like bitcoin and ether will eventually begin to rise, perhaps growing beyond the peaks reached over a year ago.
While advisors generally promote long-term investing over get-rich-quick speculation, for younger clients with high incomes or very high net worth, a little speculation on the potential growth of digital assets shouldn't seriously detract from their ability to reach long-term financial goals."
564,1057,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/12/30/5-lessons-from-2022-that-changed-crypto-forever/,5 Lessons From 2022 That Changed Crypto Forever,"Yes, this is that classic newsroom fallback for staff-depleted holiday periods: the year-in-review listicle. But whereas in other years that might seem a little dull, a cop-out even, this one is different. This time we’re talking about 2022, the year that changed crypto forever.",2022-12-30,"For many people, myself included, who were drawn to cryptocurrencies by the prospect of fixing or replacing an exclusionary, extractive, outdated global financial system, the failure in crypto markets this past year has delivered an extremely cold bath.
Now, to be clear, most of the massive financial hit to investors was not due to a failure of technology.
For the Bitcoin blockchain, for example, none of the drama of the past year matters. Every 10 minutes, day in, day out, it adds a block of transactions to its ever-growing ledger. It’s a reminder that the global, decentralized networks of computers running Bitcoin, Ethereum and other permissionless blockchain’s protocols continue to forge systems for intermediary-free value exchange with which no one person or entity can interfere, regardless of the ups and downs of markets. The presence and persistence of these vast autonomous machines continue to leave me awestruck.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
But “crypto” is more than protocols, smart contracts and cryptography. It’s also the community of humans who have gathered around this amalgam of technologies. Without this community, the technology can’t enter real-world adoption and foster change for good. And unfortunately, the failures in 2022 were due to their actions. While a few people in particular are rightly lumped with the bulk of the blame, there is mass collective responsibility here. The theft, deception and staggering breach of trust happened on our watch.
If we are to take lessons from the wealth destruction of 2022, the conclusion cannot be that this is all the fault of Sam Bankman-Fried and his ilk. SBF deserves the prison time he seems sure to receive with his extradition to the U.S., but the real question is how do we create a system – not merely a technological system but one of laws and standards – that makes it much harder for people like him to do what they did.
There is much work to do to build that system in 2023 and beyond. But it starts with the lessons of 2022. There are many. Here are the five that I think are the most important:
With all the headlines generated by the collapse of FTX in November, it’s easy to forget that far bigger losses hit cryptocurrency markets in the first months of the year – not because of a crypto-endemic scandal but because the Federal Reserve was hiking interest rates. That put an end to the surfeit of dollars pouring into speculative assets around the world, including cryptocurrencies. The macro environment matters.
The domino effect, seen when the failure of one crypto institution quickly spreads to another, is hardly without precedent. It was there in the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 1998 Long-Term Capital Management collapse, the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis and many other such moments in financial history. They all had the same characteristics: an overly bullish belief in the upward momentum of financial assets fueled an excessive buildup of loans to speculators. When those beliefs proved unfounded, the rush to the exits exposed an interdependent network of creditors and debtors as they dragged each other down in unison. Crypto speculation was never going to be immune from this, regardless of the decentralized nature of the underlying protocols.
Most of the high-profile collapses in 2022 – FTX, Celsius Network, Voyager Digital, Three Arrows Capital, Genesis – involved custody-holding CeFi (centralized finance) companies that put customer funds at risk. That has galvanized supporters of DeFi (decentralized finance), who rightly note that the most robust decentralized market-making and exchange systems survived, precisely because they lack a trusted intermediary capable of such abuse. (Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group, which is also CoinDesk's parent company.)
Yet as of October, Chainalysis estimated that DeFi investors had lost a record $3 billion year to date because of smart contract breaches, “rug pulls” by founders, and because the underlying tokenomics of some protocols were deeply flawed. (The destructive collapse in the Terra ecosystem was exemplary of the latter instance.) DeFi is a wild, volatile, confusing, unpredictable place. To achieve widespread participation, it needs a more comprehensive audit model in which trustworthy independent analysts or bounty-hunting developers assess projects’ code security, founder practices and tokenomics.
In 2020 and 2021, when social media-driven meme coins were turning kids into instant millionaires, when DeFi projects were paying yields unavailable anywhere else in the world and when institutional and retail investment sent crypto’s market capitalization up 15-fold to almost reach $3 trillion, we should all have been asking tougher questions. The most important one should have been: what’s underpinning all this?
If we peel back the layers of interlocking protocols and the justifications for the returns they were promising, we’re left with little more than speculation for speculation’s sake. Most of that was built on momentum trading, on “numbers-go-up” expectations. It’s time to get back to basics and seek out real-world utility. Token returns need to point back to actual value cases, whether its cross-border payments, decentralized energy, new marketing models offered by non-fungible tokens (NFTs) or one of many other promising use cases.
Sure, this one’s self-interested, but 2022 proved it to be undeniably true that this industry needs a robust “Fourth Estate” to hold accountable the people and entities working within it. Permissionless blockchains should be viewed as public goods – much as the air we breathe, the water we drink or the highways we drive on are public goods. They must be protected as such, which means there must be transparency (balanced with a respect for individual privacy). And while we are all enormously proud of the catalytic role CoinDesk played in exposing the FTX house of cards, it raises the question of why this wasn’t caught earlier. Answer: There aren’t enough crypto-savvy, professionally managed, independence-protected journalists covering this market. (That’s why we got those naive softball articles from the New York Times and others that glossed over SBF’s fraudulent behavior and got my colleague David Morris fired up.)
Still, here’s a hill I will die on: The requisite transparency isn't something that can be achieved solely through the work of “citizen journalists” on Twitter or elsewhere. Those who claim the FTX debacle was brought to the fore by crowd-sourcing the sleuthing work of ordinary people on social media ignore the fact that the meltdown was triggered by an investigative article by Ian Allison, a trained journalist working within the structure of a professionally run newsroom, with editors and management who have carved out a position of independence from their proprietor to earn the trust of their readers. (CoinDesk is a subsidiary of DCG but operates independently and abides by a core code of ethics.) Before Ian’s piece, where was all that Twitter wisdom-of-the-crowd discovery?
If this industry is to thrive it can’t again be blindsided by revelations of wrongdoing as extreme as those uncovered in 2022. That requires vigilance to transparency and recognition that journalists who dig into issues at relevant institutions are doing a service to the longer-term interests of this industry rather than undermining it."
565,491,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/30/ftx-congress-stablecoins-what-2023-may-bring-for-crypto-regulations/,"FTX, Congress, Stablecoins: What 2023 May Bring for Crypto Regulations",CoinDesk’s policy team predicts the issues and topics that may take center stage over the next 12 months.,2022-12-30,"Can you believe this year started off with U.S. law enforcement officials arresting two individuals in connection with the 2016 Bitfinex hacked funds? For this week’s newsletter, the 102nd since we first launched in 2021, I asked CoinDesk’s Policy Team what they’re looking out for this upcoming year.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
CoinDesk’s regulation team lays out what we’re looking at this upcoming year.
Crypto’s growing stature in the world will draw increasing amounts of attention from regulators.
Nikhilesh De (U.S.): This year did not play out quite as expected. While the idea that the bull market would end and a new crypto winter would hit was understood and expected, the sheer scale of this year’s failures seemed to catch a lot of people by surprise.
Next year will not, I suspect, be pretty. Cheyenne Ligon gets into this as well a bit further down, but as the current bankruptcy cases advance and possible new bankruptcies arise, the industry will have to deal more and more with a lot of questions around user privacy and consumer protections.
Whether crypto exchange customers can expect their personal information to remain redacted, should the provider enter bankruptcy, will continue to be a growing question for courts. This year we saw that question arise with companies like Celsius and FTX. Judges initially allowed the companies to file their creditors’ information under seal, but Celsius later released the names and holdings of all of its customers, while FTX is currently going through hearings about the same issue.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may also be gearing up to force exchanges into compliance with existing rules. SEC Chair Gary Gensler has long said he believes his agency has the authority it needs to regulate crypto companies, and that the law is clear in his view that most cryptocurrencies are securities and therefore more crypto exchanges are securities trading platforms. More recently, the SEC has suggested that it may be moving closer to actually doing something about this; Enforcement Director Gurbir Grewal said the runway for crypto companies is getting shorter, and the collapse of FTX has heightened the pressure for regulators to get a hold of this industry before something else falls apart.
I don’t expect too much in the way of legislative activity. While I know we’ll see additional bills introduced, including the highly anticipated stablecoin legislation from the House Financial Services Committee, the bigger question remains whether there will be enough bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate to actually pass anything into law. Jesse Hamilton provides his own view on legislation further down.
That being said, it’s hard to say this year was anything but a black mark for the industry in the eyes of regulators. The collapse of Terra/Luna, the bankruptcies of basically the entire crypto lender sector (minus Nexo, which still ended up leaving the U.S.), the meltdown of FTX (the largest exchange failure in years) – these are all events that will pressure regulators worldwide. The Facebook (now Meta)-led Libra (later Diem) project and the global backlash to it tells us how regulators may respond as well. It may not be a quick response, but years after Facebook first introduced Libra, lawmakers from different nations developed stablecoin regulations to rein in the sector. I suspect we’ll see a similar response in reaction to this year’s events.
Sandali Handagama (EMEA): This past year did not just test the prowess of global crypto companies and markets, but also the relatively new regulatory frameworks designed to govern the space. As high profile entities from Terraform Labs to FTX fell one after the other, the regulators they were linked to, be it in the Bahamas or Singapore, were also put on the spot.
Singapore, which boasted a sophisticated regulatory regime for crypto firms, faced tough questions on how its central bank decided which platforms were safe for investors after it flagged rival exchange Binance but not the now-bankrupt FTX.
In the European Union, lawmakers questioned if their landmark Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) framework, hailed as a global standard for crypto regulation, could really prevent an FTX-style collapse, which had over 100 entities operating in multiple jurisdictions while registered in the Bahamas.
The cross-border nature of crypto warrants global cooperation on regulations, international bodies like the International Monetary Fund and the Financial Stability Board have said. The push for global standards for crypto only intensified as the markets went from bad to worse this year. In 2023, we’ll hear more about a global push for oversight and perhaps watch international leaders tackle a tougher question – are regulations enough?
Jesse Hamilton (U.S.): If crypto has a future as a widespread, commonly exchanged asset, that future could be decided this year in Washington, D.C.
The policy work is coming to a head, including with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s eventual decision on whether the government should step into the field with a digital dollar and a number of legislative efforts that could finally set down national rules for stablecoins and crypto trading that will secure a place for digital assets in the U.S. financial system. That comes with a price, of course, and it may be too high for some in the industry.
This regulatory reckoning comes as many U.S. lawmakers and the heads of agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are particularly skeptical about the way things are run in crypto world, and the latest crisis with FTX could mean more stringent oversight than what lawmakers contemplated in the first few bills that started the debate. Meanwhile, if the SEC retains the authority to define what makes a token a security (and so far, Chair Gary Gensler says most of them are), that agency will hold token issuers and exchanges to existing securities law, which never foresaw decentralized crypto assets.
The new Congress may take a while to settle in during 2023, so it could be months before the Senate (still controlled by Democrats) and the House of Representatives (newly piloted by Republicans) will find common ground on crypto. The effort that may be farthest along is the House Financial Services Committee’s bipartisan stablecoin regulation bill, so that relatively narrow legislation could test whether crypto is among the limited range of issues that a divided government can move forward on. The two parties, several committees and a lot of crypto-doubting lawmakers have to be brought together before the industry can finally get more comprehensive regulation.
While Congress works on that, U.S. financial agency chiefs who make up the Financial Stability Oversight Council could use that group’s powers to formally declare crypto activities such as stablecoins as systemically important, which could give the Fed or others some regulatory authority there. And apart from the onset of significant enforcement actions likely coming from the SEC in 2023, lesser-known agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could also start imposing their powers over the financial products offered by crypto firms.
Cheyenne Ligon (U.S.): The spectacular downfall of FTX in November – which saw the world’s second-largest crypto exchange reduced to rubble in little more than a week – was certainly the largest and most shocking failure of 2022, but it was far from this year’s only crypto collapse.
The FTX drama has had the secondary effect of drawing attention away from the failures that came before it – including the depegging and subsequent implosion of algorithmic stablecoin issuer Terra, the $10 billion wipeout of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and a wave of other crypto bankruptcies including Celsius Network and Voyager Digital.
FTX’s collapse – and the fall from grace of its former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, who is now facing criminal fraud charges for his role in the alleged scheme – has also overshadowed subsequent bankruptcies (like BlockFi’s) in the wake of its spreading contagion.
The knock-on effects of that contagion has also caused several other major crypto companies including Nexo, Gemini, and Genesis (a sister company of CoinDesk) to wobble while FTX continues to steal the spotlight.
Though 2022 was a major year for crypto bankruptcies, the momentum shows no signs of slowing in 2023. The bankruptcy process is often slow and painstaking, and the bankruptcies that began in 2023 will stretch well into 2023 and perhaps beyond. And, if the dominoes continue to fall (and they almost certainly will), still more crypto companies will join them.
Camomile Shumba (UK): The U.K. was a big story with the political and regulatory turmoil putting into question the crypto hub plans Prime Minister Rishi Sunak set out when he was finance minister. It’s unclear if the political storm has passed with many calling for an early general election which could result in Labour – the current favorite party to win, who may not be as crypto friendly as the current ruling Tory Party – taking charge.
What also is unclear is whether the country's crypto hub ambitions have any real standing when its financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has a strict stance when it comes to crypto. CEO Nikhil Rathi told lawmakers in a meeting that the FCA had turned away 85% of the crypto companies that tried to register with it to operate in the country.
The Financial Services and Markets bill, which is still being debated in Parliament, will give the FCA powers to regulate crypto and how these companies advertise to U.K. clients. The U.K. government’s finance arm, the Treasury, will set out how best to regulate the industry, beginning with a public consultation. How all this unfolds will indicate how crypto friendly the U.K. will be.
Lavender Au (APAC): Regulatory frameworks are starting to firm up in Asia. This year, Hong Kong passed its licensing regime on exchanges and South Korea put together a bill to govern digital assets. 2022 was also a year of adjustments. Japan committed to relaxing tax regulations, which effectively made it impossible to issue tokens in the country. Singapore considered tightening regulations to reduce risk to retail investors.
Strict regulations in the region also mean there’s business in finding ways to dodge them. Investors in Japan use gray OTC channels to avoid high taxes. China’s investors continue to onramp — an estimated 8% of FTX users were based in the country, according to a chart shown at its first bankruptcy hearing.
As in other regions, the collapses of Luna and FTX added urgency to regulatory efforts. Next year, Asian regulators will issue regulatory frameworks on stablecoins. Soft consultations in Hong Kong will continue on requirements for allowing retail to invest. Both Japan and Singapore have indicated that they are looking into regulating DeFi.
This year, to enter local markets, exchanges with a global presence have snapped up smaller local regulated exchanges (see Binance’s acquisition of Sakura in Japan and Tokocrypto in Indonesia). More mergers and acquisitions are likely in 2023, as larger players look to snap up more local players.
Jack Schickler (EU): The Markets in Crypto Assets law made the European Union the first major jurisdiction with a legal framework for the sector. As various shocks hit in 2022, EU regulators vaunted their new consumer protection and financial stability rules – which, they said, ensure stablecoins have decent reserves (side-eye to terraUSD) and that crypto exchanges are properly governed (I’m looking at you, FTX).
2023 presents a fork in the road for crypto companies. Register with authorities under MiCA, and you get legitimacy: the right to advertise within the bloc, official approval to persuade people you aren’t the next FTX, connections to traditional finance that helps onramp new clients.
But if an exchange or wallet provider doesn’t want to jump through all those regulatory hoops, it can still sell crypto in the EU by a loophole known as reverse solicitation. Offshore providers could also offer less scrupulous clients tempting extra features, like not reporting their holdings to EU tax authorities.
Lately the trend seemed to be in favor of increasing regulatory compliance; Binance, which once boasted that it had no headquarters, has now set up entities in Cyprus, France, Spain and Italy as it prepares for MiCA to take effect in 2024. But crypto companies will all be looking over their shoulders as they take decisions: no company wants its competitors to be getting an unfair advantage. Which way will they jump?
Amitoj Singh (India): In 2023, Indian crypto enthusiasts will have their eyes on three major events.
First, the annual budget announcement, which could see India change its crypto taxation policy. A 30% tax on crypto profits and a 1% tax deducted at source (TDS) on all transactions, among other macroeconomic factors, had a brutal impact on trading in India. The industry has asked the government to reconsider these rules.
Second, India will host the Group of 20 (G-20) nations in September 2023 in New Delhi. When India assumed the G-20 presidency in Dec. 2022, it stated that framing globally coordinated crypto rules would be a priority. Deliberations between the G-20 nations have begun and will culminate during the summit with the expectation that the world’s largest economies settle on a globally acceptable crypto regulation framework.
Third, the nation’s central bank hopes to launch its CBDC on a full scale by the end of 2023. Currently, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has commenced its pilot in four cities with the participation of four major cities. The pilot's progress will determine the future of India’s digital rupee and potentially contribute to the globally acceptable standards around the use cases of CBDCs.
A year ago, I asked my team – then the newly created regulatory team at CoinDesk – what everyone would monitor over the course of 2022.
Sandali Handagama highlighted the European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets framework, which lawmakers advanced this year. Elsewhere, a digital euro is still under discussion but is still a ways from realization.
Cheyenne Ligon said she expected to see “an uptick in the number of criminal probes” tied to crypto, alongside other court cases such as the sentencing of Ethereum developer Virgil Griffith. We did indeed see a rise in the profiles of SEC and CFTC enforcement actions, including the SEC explicitly calling several cryptocurrencies securities in an enforcement action against a former Coinbase employee and the CFTC going so far as to sue an entire DAO in an ongoing matter.
Lavender Au said South Korea’s presidential election could lead to a change in how the country approaches digital assets. Japan is similarly advancing its efforts to better understand and legislate cryptocurrencies, like stablecoins, while Hong Kong’s government is seeking to draw in new crypto businesses.
Amitoj Singh said he would watch for how India tried to mitigate crypto risks and tax rules, just ahead of India implementing a fairly strict tax regime that appears to have actually impacted the entire industry within India.
Last year I said I was looking at stablecoin regulation and the bipartisan infrastructure law, as well as whether regulators would act decisively.
We heard about bipartisan stablecoin legislation that seems almost certain to be debated and discussed in the new Congress, even as it fell short of introduction this year.
I also wrote, “Will one of these agencies issue guidance for startups trying to launch in the U.S.? Or will 2022 be a repeat of 2021 and 2020 and 2019 and so on where we hear speeches and see enforcement actions but not much more.”
I guess we have our answer.
N/A
(The Verge) Hackers stole customer vault data in a recent breach of password managing service LastPass. If you use it, you may want to look into updating some passwords. Like now.
(Politico) Southwest Airlines had a historically awful Christmas, canceling thousands of flights and still dealing with the effects of Winter Storm Elliot. Congress is probably going to have a look.
This is what you get when you ask the sports guy to come in to cover a blizzard in the morning show. pic.twitter.com/h0RL9tVQqg
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
566,429,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/30/solana-token-rebounds-off-thursday-lows-as-buterin-tweets-support/,Solana Price Rebounds as Ethereum's Buterin Tweets Support,But the “Sam coin” is still down nearly 95% this year.,2022-12-30,"Solana’s native token SOL erased most of Thursday’s 15% fall after Ethereum founder Vitalik Buterin tweeted support for the blockchain most battered by FTX’s implosion.
SOL rebounded from Thursday’s low of $8.19 and retook the $9.50 range where it had been trading for much of the day. But the token is still 96% below all-time highs near $260, in part because of sellers dumping the “Sam coin” alleged fraudster Sam Bankman-Fried once loudly boosted.
“Some smart people tell me there is an earnest smart developer community in Solana, and now that the awful opportunistic money people have been washed out, the chain has a bright future,” Buterin tweeted shortly before SOL’s Thursday recovery began.
SOL has lost 20% in just one week. It is trading in the single digits for the first time since February 2021.
“Hard for me to tell from outside, but I hope the community gets its fair chance to thrive,” he said of Solana’s developers, who are building a decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem to rival Ethereum – the DeFi market leader.
Some on Crypto Twitter are pointing out that SOL’s 2021-2022 chart mimics the boom-bust pattern set by ETH in 2018 and 2019, when ETH fell 95% from its heights above $1,200. ETH weathered another boom-bust cycle and has settled in the $1,200 range again.
A friend also shared this SOL overlapped on ETH chart from 2017 to present idk about you, but SOL pullback lookin like ETH pullback in 2018 👀 pic.twitter.com/8CqOuyhJv5
For SOL to recover it will likely have to shake off its association with Bankman-Fried, who invested heavily in SOL and supported Solana projects with FTX venture deals and market-making from Alameda Research. The twin companies’ implosions triggered an exodus of capital from Solana DeFi; and its trading protocols continue to suffer from insufficient liquidity.
Read more: Why Solana Was Decimated by Bankman-Fried’s Downfall
Bankman-Fried’s impact on SOL is more than just bad PR, however. His companies bought over 58 million SOL tokens in aggregate – 15% of the current circulating supply. Though it's unclear how much SOL the now-bankrupt companies still control, the liquidation of those assets could further depress SOL’s market."
567,1049,https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2022/12/30/despite-the-frost-of-crypto-winter-the-wrapture-holders-kept-their-cool/,"Despite the Frost of Crypto Winter, The Wrapture Holders Kept Their Cool","Holders of Dmitri Cherniak's NFT art project-meets-social experiment were instructed not to move, list or sell their assets for a year. The result was a test of patience and trust in the face of market uncertainty.",2022-12-30,"It's been a tough year to be a non-fungible token (NFT) holder. While 2021 welcomed high-value NFT sales, soaring cryptocurrency prices and an influx of new entrants into the space, this past year has seen trading slow and crypto prices drown in the sludge of an extended crypto winter.
Ethereum, which powers many popular NFT projects, was trading at around $4,000 just a year ago. Now, it's down to about $1,195. The global crypto market cap, once valued at about $3 trillion, currently stands at around $796 billion.
Given the deteriorating conditions over the last year, one would be safe to assume that many NFT holders would be eager to offload their assets and cut their losses. This would have been especially true for holders of generative artist Dmitri Cherniak's The Wrapture NFT project, a collection of 50 algorithmic art pieces made available to holders of his Eternal Pump collection that launched in December 2021.
Gm

The Eternal Pump #19, #25, #23, #10 by @dmitricherniak pic.twitter.com/aNpSD8EI2n
Part social experiment, part community building exercise, holders of the project were given a set of rules that would ultimately determine their NFT's rarity and long-term value: If no one moved, listed or sold their asset for a year, the project would be capped at 50 editions and they would be free to move their art without consequence. But if one collector were to ""break the rules,"" the remainder of the 666 editions would be released to the public for minting.
""Scarcity typically adds value to art,"" prominent collector Vincent Van Dough, who owns eight Wrapture NFTs, told me.
""I was hoping they would [wait],"" Cherniak said. ""I always rooted for it to hold."" The artist also stored one of The Wrapture NFTs in his vault, meaning that he could have technically broken the rules at any point, leaving other collectors to face the repercussions.
Collector Ayybee, who holds The Wrapture #40, recalled the turmoil of needing to rely on other holders' goodwill. ""It's sort of this form of the prisoner's dilemma,"" they told me, ""except we could communicate and coordinate."" They said they considered ""all of the various possibilities as time passed"" when deciding whether to wait an entire year to derive any monetary value from their digital asset. ""One year is a millennium in this space,"" they said, adding that ""much of the intrigue as it relates to this project was being a participant in the process and so naturally, you want to see that through to the end.""
Others were motivated to hold onto their NFTs as an unspoken commitment to the community of holders that emerged from the project. ""The social experiment aspect of the project is something that I think really resonated and was an important statement for the space,"" said Pete Molick, who owns The Wrapture #37.
""The Wrapture/Eternal Pump Holder group has become very close over the course of the last year,"" said Matt Miller, owner of The Wrapture #24. ""It would not only would it be unfair to my fellow collectors participating in this experiment, but it would also be a poor financial decision to flood the collection supply with 616 more outputs.""
""There was a faction of people from the outside clamoring for a knight in shining armor to break the Wrapture and allow more people to collect, but ultimately it was never even a question to hold on,"" he added.
In early 2021, Cherniak was riding a high after the release of two successful NFT projects on the generative art platform Art Blocks – Ringers, a 1,000-edition, algorithmically generated project based on strings and pegs, and Eternal Pump, a 50-edition hand-coded animated project that nods to the culture of ""pumping"" up the price of an NFT project. Cherniak's work, along with the work of other artists like Art Blocks founder and Squiggles artist Erick ""Snowfro"" Calderon, Fidenza artist Tyler Hobbs and more, helped to revive the art style known as generative art.
""When Ringers was released in January, it helped kicked off a new wave of appreciation for generative art,"" Cherniak told me. ""And because of that, it also became highly valued and sought after."" He added that the soon-after-released Eternal Pump added to ""the mania and insanity around a drop and the intense botting"" that resulted in automated systems buying and selling artwork for massive profits.
Art Blocks Ringers 109 bought for Ξ2100 ($6,922,881.00)
Rare Traits:
Background: White - 1.99%
Wrap orientation: Balanced - 1.96%
Wrap style: Loop - 1.26%https://t.co/nEPTbf9oZt pic.twitter.com/oAvsFzM5nm
By the summer and fall of 2021, the Canadian-born, New York-based artist said that generative art had ""reached a new level of attention, partially due to the dollars being thrown at it."" His third Art Blocks release, The Wrapture, was meant to be a ""conclusion to a trilogy of projects.""
""It was originally supposed to be an exploration and combination of the visual forms from my first two drops, but became more of a conceptual project and my response to my experience in the previous year,"" he explained.
Anyone that held an Eternal Pump NFT was invited to mint a Wrapture NFT, resulting in a tight-knit community of 37 NFT owners that held the project's future in their hands.
""In many ways, the Wrapture became a mirror to the NFT ecosystem,"" he said, ""And it was my attempt to make a point that art, and crypto art, does not need to be flipped or sold for short-term capital gains.""
The 37 holders had to abide by one simple rule to increase the scarcity (and, presumably, value) of their NFTs: Hold on for dear life, often colloquially abbreviated to HODL.
""It was a unique opportunity to be a part of the art, so to speak,"" said Ayybee.
This may have been an easy task in 2021 when the crypto market was booming and NFTs often yielded great returns. But the mood of 2022 gradually became less optimistic – high-profile rug pull scams tainted the NFT space, wash trading obscured trading data and the collapse of crypto ecosystem Terra, crypto lender Celsius and most recently Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX resulted in volatility that rippled throughout the crypto space. Spooked traders left in droves.
In particular, the liquidation of Singapore-based crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital almost derailed The Wrapture's plan entirely. The fund had suffered major losses from deteriorating crypto conditions and was ordered to liquidate its assets in June and filed for bankruptcy in July. Three Arrows Capital had purchased dozens of high-value collectibles – including four Wrapture NFTs – through its Starry Night Capital fund, and it was unclear what would happen to those assets as the company caved in.
""There was definitely a sense of collectively holding our breath not knowing exactly how that liquidation would be handled,"" said Molick.
In October, liquidators began moving Starry Night Capital's multi-million dollar NFT collection into a Gnosis Safe, which requires multiple signatures to approve a transaction. Hundreds of NFTs were transferred in the process – except for the four Wraptures, which remained untouched until the project's lock period ended earlier this month.
""We were all amazed that every NFT they owned was transferred to the liquidators with the exception of the Wraptures,"" said Miller.
Among the more interesting elements of its story is the fact that the liquidators of Three Arrows Capital transferred all NFTs, except for their 4 Wraptures, to a new wallet.

The Wrapture rules survived a multi-billion dollar liquidation process.https://t.co/qLvUfKSA81
""Liquidators opted not to move the Wraptures until it was over, which means not only were they aware of the rules of the game, they decided to actively engage in the game,"" added Cherniak.
Over 365 days, none of the 37 Wrapture holders listed, moved or sold their NFTs. The experiment ended on December 17, capping the collection at 50 pieces and leaving holders with a sense of camaraderie and accomplishment.
Congratulations to @dmitricherniak and all fellow holders of The Wrapture. A year has passed since the initial mint, without a single transfer, listing or sale occurring, ensuring that the collection size will remain at only 50 pieces… pic.twitter.com/0Hvim4lQyo
Wrapture #7 was auctioned off by Cherniak on December 21, with 100% of proceeds to fund gastroesophageal cancer research at Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto. The winning bid of 169 ETH (about $203,000) was made by crypto art fund Curated.
gm

We’re excited to add @dmitricherniak’s ‘The Wrapture’ #7 to the Curated collection ✨

It’s the first Wrapture to trade since they were distributed exactly a year ago. pic.twitter.com/HhREDPNIkP
Several Wrapture NFTs have been transferred between wallets over the last week, though none have sold yet. At the time of writing, only one Wrapture was up for sale at 175 ETH (about $209,530), making the floor price of the project 175 ETH. The highest bid for a Wrapture NFT so far is 20 wrapped ether (wETH).
So what to make of this yearlong social experiment? Holders shared their thoughts.
""Can’t say I’m too surprised by the outcome,"" said Vincent Van Dough. ""Art Blocks and especially Eternal Pump went on a huge run last year before The Wrapture mint, so by that point, the only people left holding were long-term collectors who didn’t seem to have a need to take profits.""
Others were moved by a sense of unity and market optimism.
""I think it shows that there is a true community of passionate collectors that are unwavering despite market conditions,"" said Miller.
""Undoubtedly it says that generative art is here to stay and that there is continuous growth that isn't necessarily tied to what's happening in the markets,"" added Ayybee.
For Cherniak, the experience was a testament to the creative use cases for blockchain technology.
""Ultimately, blockchains are social coordination technologies,"" he said. ""I think if anything, they just highlighted that NFTs and crypto don’t always need to be about the money."
568,1050,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/30/first-mover-asia-3-crypto-predictions-for-2023-from-digital-manager-3iqs-research-head/,First Mover Asia: 3 Crypto Predictions for 2023 From Digital Asset Manager 3iQ's Research Head,Mark Connors sees a rebound in digital prices by the third quarter and companies increasing their involvement in developing regulation. ALSO: Bitcoin would just as soon forget acquaintances auld and new to 2022.,2022-12-30,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Three days before the close of 2022, bitcoin inched proudly upward. Solana continued to tailspin before erasing losses late in the day, while other cryptos were mixed.
Insights: Mark Connors, head of research for digital asset manager 3iQ, sees a crypto rebound by the third quarter of 2023 and financial services firms and others playing a more proactive role in the development of regulation.
Bitcoin Remains Defiant at the Close of a Dreadful Year
By James Rubin
On the third to last day of a historically, massively, tragically bad year, bitcoin held its head proudly if barely above water.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just above $16,630, up a few fractions of a percentage point over the past 24 hours. BTC has now been balancing roughly between $16,400 and $17,000 for 13 days amid investor sluggishness typical for a year's closing days. Crypto markets would also rather forget acquaintances – auld and new – to 2022 even as they gird for more rough times ahead in 2023.
""Bitcoin continues to happily tread water and watch the storm pass as it fluctuates in a range of around $16,000-$17,000,"" wrote Craig Erlam, senior markets editor for foreign exchange market maker Oanda, in an email. ""That's broadly been the case over the last couple of weeks and it doesn't look like changing in the coming days, barring any unexpected headlines.""
Erlam added: ""The question for many now is whether it has bottomed and how long it will take confidence to return, enabling a strong recovery. I'm not convinced by either in the near term and think there are plenty more twists and turns to come early next year.""
Ether was recently changing hands slightly below $1,200 but up 0.8% from Wednesday, same time. Other major cryptos were mixed with ETC, the token of the Ethereum Classic blockchain project, rising about 4% and popular meme coin SHIB up nearly 3%, but SOL's sad saga continuing, with the token of the embattled Solana blockchain, plummeting more than 12% at one point. SOL erased those losses after Ethereum co-founder Vitalik tweeted his support for the platform, but has dropped almost 20% over the past week from over $12 to nearly $9.70, and is off more than 90% since Jan. 1. SOL's decline has largely stemmed from Solana's ties to the collapses of the Terra ecosystem and crypto exchange FTX.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, recently jumped 0.21%.
Equity indexes closed 2022's penultimate trading day on a high with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 climbing 2.6% and 1.7%, respectively. The S&P notched its biggest gains in a month. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) rose 1%. Investors remain wary about China's retreat from Covid lockdown, which could jolt its stagnant economic growth but also raise global, energy prices.
Security remains a key issue for the crypto industry. In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program on Thursday, Ari Redbord, head of legal and government affairs at crypto sleuthing firm TRM Labs, said that cracking down on crypto hacks will require hardening cyber defenses. The former U.S. Justice Department prosecutor said that finding strategies to identify and trace illicit activity will mean developing better “blockchain intelligence tools” that can identify new mixers before bad actors can get to them.
According to TRM Labs, more than $3.6 billion in funds have been drained in crypto this year. About 80%, or roughly $3 billion, targeted decentralized finance (DeFi)
Earlier in the program, CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Andrew Baehr, said that although bitcoin's value declined about 64% year-to-date, CoinDesk research showed that BTC and ETH returns in 2022 per unit of risk were about the same as equities and significantly better than bonds.
““We want to underscore this is not too different from what you would see in traditional markets, especially stock markets,"" Baehr said. ""Look at some of the darlings that people were really excited about 18 months ago in stocks, they’ve lost 80-90% of their value as well.”
Fund Manager 3iQ Has 3 Bold Predictions for 2023
By James Rubin
A year ago, before the crumbling of the Terra ecosystem, the implosion of Three Arrows Capital and crypto lending platform Celsius and disgrace of exchange giant FTX, who could have foreseen that the digital asset industry would be limping home in 2022. A year ago, bitcoin was still percolating over $47,000 and seemed likely to remain unruffled by the economic headwinds already buffeting the world.
What's in store in 2023?
In an interview with CoinDesk, Mark Connors, head of research for Canadian crypto asset manager, said he expects a price rebound in 2023 and TradFi companies and others to play a more active role not only in finding uses for blockchain technology but in the development of regulation. ""Leadership will come from the corporate side, not the regulatory side,"" Connors said.
CoinDesk: What's your first prediction for 2023?
Connors: Leadership will come from the corporate side, not the regulatory side. We're looking for regulatory clarity so that investment firms can own coins and invest in existing Layer 1s. Whether whether it be bitcoin, Ethereum or Layer 1s, we believe the incentive structures of companies will make them take a leadership role and act and not wait for legislation to both continue to create their own industry blockchains as well as leverage the existing Ethereum EVM, and to a lesser degree, the bitcoin blockchain as they transfer both B2B and B2C functionality to blockchains. That was the most silent, underreported action in 2022. TradFi is going to lead the charge, not native crypto and not regulatory agencies. That's going to be the curveball.
CoinDesk: What else do you foresee for the year ahead?
Connors: 2023 will be a barbell for digital assets. It will be the core Layer 1s, Bitcoin, Ethereum, and it will be the use of NFTs by TradFi companies, which is a corollary to my first point. In 2022, the ecosystem was you had your alt level ones like Solana, Algorand and the like providing the bulk of the non-Bitcoin, Etherium, stablecoin market cap. Seventy percent of market cap in digital assets of the last 12 months. So that 30% of market cap is going to shift from alt level ones and level twos and other projects to be more NFT related. The NFT technology from a security and verification standpoint has greater integrity, and a higher trust and security factor. Given it can be nested with the Etherium ecosystem and can be bridged, it will have functionality and security. I think you'll see the most growth in NFTs.
CoinDesk: What's going to happen to crypto prices? Do you see a rebound, and if so, when?
Connors: We are so dollar based. Dollar strength destroys risk assets. The Fed has two mandates, price stability and full employment. But they have taken on a third mandate. They have a trilemma, which is wonderful because no economic system can run on two poles. My third prediction is that before the third quarter, the Fed will stop quantitative tightening. They will stop because the Treasury market would have experienced a failure like September 2019. Money markets will crack, the Fed will print and crypto will reverse as sharply as it did in March 2020. We're still young as a market. We don't conrol our own destiny on price and adoption.
2:45 p.m. HKT/SGT(6:45 a.m. UTC): Chicago Purchasing Managers' Index (Dec.)
6 p.m. HKT/SGT(10 a.m. UTC): Baker Hughes U.S. Oil Rig Count
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Alameda Research Liquidates Ether-Based Holdings for Bitcoin; A Silver Lining in BTC and ETH Performance
""First Mover"" dives into the day's top stories, including the sudden sale of several tokens held by Alameda Research worth some $1.7 million. On-chain data shows the ether-based token holdings were liquidated in a span of just a few hours and ultimately exchanged for bitcoin. Plus, CoinDesk Managing Director Andrew Baehr discussed a silver lining in the past year's performance of BTC and ETH. And, Ovie Faruq (aka OSF) NFT artist joined CoinDesk reporter Eli Tan to discuss the state of the NFT market.
Step Aside, Ethereum: Blockchain Project Stacks Wants to Bring Smart Contracts to Bitcoin: The project claims its Bitcoin sidechain can unlock “hundreds of billions of dollars” in DeFi on bitcoin.
Bitcoin, Ether Did Better Than You Think in 2022: CoinDesk research shows that per unit of risk, bitcoin and ether performed significantly better than bonds and had similar results to equities in 2022.
It’s Been a Year Since NFTs Exploded. Where Are We Headed?: For NFT collectors and creators, this past year marked noticeable changes within the market. From utility to community building, here are just a few trends that will push the space forward in 2023.
DeFi Platforms Need to Beef Up Security, Former Prosecutor Says: Ari Redbord, who now works at crypto sleuthing firm TRM Labs, says attackers are becoming more sophisticated.
UPDATE (Dec. 29, 2022, 1:44 UTC): Updates SOL price and related information."
569,195,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/30/ftxs-international-customers-lawyer-up-ask-judge-to-rule-that-customer-assets-are-not-property-of-ftx-estate/,"FTX’s International Customers Lawyer Up, Ask Judge to Rule That Customer Assets Aren't Property of FTX Estate",The ad-hoc committee of FTX.com’s non-U.S. customers so far has 18 members with a collective $1.94 billion locked on the platform.,2022-12-30,"Lawyers representing FTX.com’s non-U.S. customers have joined the bankruptcy fray, filing a motion on Wednesday asking a Delaware judge to rule that customer assets locked in the collapsed exchange are customer property – not property of the FTX estate.
The ad hoc committee of international creditors represents 18 international customers of FTX with a collective $1.94 billion in assets locked on the FTX platform.
The ad hoc committee’s motion, on its face, is straightforward. Unlike other failed crypto lenders including Celsius Network and Voyager Digital, which were both legally allowed to invest customer funds to generate yield, FTX’s terms of service are clear: Customer assets belong to customers, and FTX didn't have the right to touch them.
Despite the unambiguous language of FTX’s terms of service, lawyers for the ad hoc committee say they expect pushback from FTX, which has so far been tight-lipped on the issue of customer funds.
One of the ad hoc committee’s attorneys, Erin Broderick, a Chicago-based lawyer with the firm Eversheds Sutherland, told CoinDesk that one reason FTX could be keeping quiet about what to do with customer funds is that the company’s lawyers and executives could need them to defray operating costs.
“The professional fees in this case are enormous,” Broderick said. “I think they’ll push back ... and part of that is ‘Well, how do you pay fees?’”
FTX’s executives aren’t the only ones who have kept mum about the issue of customer funds – so, too, has the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors. Broderick told CoinDesk that the committee’s silence might be because voicing an opinion on the ownership of customer assets could be a conflict of interest.
“Even though the official committee is composed entirely of FTX.com customers – there’s no U.S. customers, there’s no general unsecured creditors – seeking a determination that assets belong to the customers instead of the estate as a whole could be a conflict of interest,” Broderick said.
Broderick is hopeful, however, that the official committee could throw its weight behind the ad hoc committee’s proposal.
“Now, they can be objective and intervene in support to say ‘Hey, [we] read the papers and that’s right, we want all creditors to be acknowledged for their rightful positions,’” Broderick said. “I think that’s fair. But the fiduciary duties of the official committee – they run to all general unsecured creditors, and the determinations that we’re seeking are with respect to FTX.com customers only.”
Broderick also said that the ad hoc committee’s motion is trying to prevent the “dollarization” of customer claims, which she said FTX has already taken a step toward by listing the dollar value (not the total amount of cryptocurrency) of customer claims in the creditors matrix.
“But when you dollarize – regardless of what digital asset it is, what form of asset it is – as of the petition date, that is essentially giving the debtors the power to liquidate whatever’s on the exchange and say, ‘This is what you get at the bottom of the market’,” Broderick said. “So it's an important distinction, not just with respect to priorities and distribution timing, but it's really important from a valuation standpoint.”
FTX, a crypto exchange, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Delaware on Nov. 11 after it unraveled following a CoinDesk report that revealed Alameda Research, an affiliated trading firm, was largely backed by FTT tokens, digital assets that FTX created out of thin air."
570,387,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/30/first-mover-americas-cathie-wood-bargain-hunts-coinbase/,First Mover Americas: Cathie Wood 'Bargain Hunts' Coinbase,"The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Dec. 30, 2022.",2022-12-30,"This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
Noted investor Cathie Wood’s ARK Invest made its largest investment in Coinbase’s (COIN) stock since Dec. 14 on Thursday, adding about $5.5 million of the crypto exchange's shares, based on closing prices. The firm bought more than 158,000 shares for its ARK Fintech Innovation ETF. Coinbase's stock closed at $34.78 in New York Thursday, up roughly 7%. The shares have fallen 86% this year.
The Bahamian Securities Commission has taken custody of FTX deposits valued at more than $3.5 billion as of Nov. 12. Shortly after FTX filed for bankruptcy, about $372 million worth of tokens were stolen from the exchange by an unknown actor thought to be an external hacker. Given media reports of a cyberattack on FTX, and possible looting of FTX-controlled wallets by former employees, the Commission said in a statement that it ""determined that there was a significant risk of imminent dissipation as to the digital assets under the custody or control of [FTX] to the prejudice of its customers and creditors.""
Solana’s native token SOL largely bounced back from Thursday’s 15% fall after Ethereum founder Vitalik Buterin tweeted support for the blockchain battered by FTX’s implosion. SOL rebounded from Thursday’s low of $8.19 to retake the $9.50 range where it had been trading for much of the day. But the token is still 96% below its all-time high of nearly $260, in part because of sellers dumping the “Sam coin” alleged FTX fraudster Sam Bankman-Fried once loudly boosted.
FBI Investigating 3Commas Data Breach
How Tether Can Be a More Stable Stablecoin
Despite the Frost of Crypto Winter, The Wrapture Holders Kept Their Cool"
571,71,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/30/regulators-in-the-bahamas-are-holding-35-billion-in-ftx-customer-assets/,Regulators in the Bahamas Are Holding $3.5 Billion in FTX Customer Assets,Concerns over the security of assets in FTX custody prompted the authorities to take control of them.,2022-12-30,"The Securities Commission of the Bahamas has taken custody of FTX deposits valued at more than $3.5 billion as of Nov. 12, according to a media release published late Thursday by the SCB.
Shortly after FTX filed for bankruptcy, about $372 million worth of tokens were stolen from the exchange by an unknown actor thought to be an external hacker. Given media reports of a cyberattack on FTX, and possible looting of FTX-controlled wallets by former employees, the Commission said in its statement it ""determined that there was a significant risk of imminent dissipation as to the digital assets under the custody or control of [FTX] to the prejudice of its customers and creditors.""
Assets will be held until the Bahamas Supreme Court directs the Commission to deliver them to the customers and creditors who own them, the statement says.
The Commission said that FTX founders Sam Bankman-Fried and Gary Wang no longer had access to the $3.5 billion in tokens that were transferred.
In the statement, the Commission reiterated that it didn't direct FTX to prioritize the withdrawals of Bahamas-based customers.
FTX, a crypto exchange, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. on Nov. 11 after it unraveled following a CoinDesk report that revealed Alameda Research, an affiliated trading firm, was largely backed by FTT, tokens that FTX created out of thin air.
UPDATE (Dec. 30, 2022, 16:40 UTC): Corrects name of the Bahamas regulator."