,id,URL,Title,Subtitle,Date,Main_Content
0,366,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/05/chainlink-jumps-while-bitcoin-stages-recovery/,Chainlink Jumps While Bitcoin Stages Recovery,LINK hit resistance levels while major cryptocurrencies held support levels ahead of publication of the Fed’s minutes on Wednesday.,2022-01-05,"Tokens of oracle platform Chainlink (LINK) have climbed 10% in the past 24 hours to lead gains among major cryptocurrencies as the broader market showed signs of recovery.
LINK traded at $26.04 during the European morning hours, extending a 27% rise in the past week. It hit a resistance level and fell back as some traders took profits. Price charts show the $26-$28 range could prove to be trading limits. If it breaks through, another major resistance exists at $30.
LINK is used to pay for price feeds and other services on Chainlink and has a market capitalization of $12 billion, CoinGecko data show. The price is, however, down 50% from May 2021′s record $52.
Oracles are blockchain-based services that fetch data from outside a blockchain. Blockchains, by design, are immutable stores of data, but can’t verify if the entered data is false or rogue. This is where oracle networks like Chainlink help – they refer multiple sources of information to provide reliable data to blockchain-based services and products for users.
LINK was one of the few tokens in green as the rest of the market showed tepid growth.
Bitcoin gained over $460 in the past 24 hours ahead of Wednesday’s release of the minutes of the December meeting of the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed). Investors expect early rate hikes as the agency ends its asset-buying program in March 2022.
The program was started by the Fed after the first coronavirus outbreak in early 2020 to support asset prices, leading to inflation concerns and increased interest in risky assets such as bitcoin. The Fed’s balance sheet has since grown to $8.75 trillion.
A steady bitcoin saw several major cryptocurrencies hold support levels. Ether (ETH), binance coin (BNB), and solana (SOL) – three of the top five cryptocurrencies by market cap – rose just over 1% in the past 24 hours.
Losers among major cryptocurrencies showed only slight declines. Tokens of Terra (LUNA) and Avalanche (AVAX), which have risen as much as 30% in the past month, lost just over 1% of their value in the past 24 hours.
Top gainers outside of the top 20 cryptocurrencies by market cap included fantom (FTM) and osmosis (OSMO), which continued their rise from the start of this week. Both tokens have seen increased interest as investors search for blockchain ecosystems – outside of Ethereum – that can support the creation of software and other services atop their networks."
1,218,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/06/polkadot-solana-biggest-losers-among-top-cryptos/,"Polkadot, Solana Biggest Losers Among Top Cryptos","Tokens of top blockchain networks dropped as much as 14% after bitcoin lost its $46,500 support level.",2022-01-06,"Top cryptocurrencies saw deep losses in the past 24 hours as bitcoin (BTC) fell to as low as $42,700 after losing a major support level of $46,500, causing a sell-off in the broader altcoin market.
Among the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, tokens of Ethereum rivals Avalanche (AVAX), Terra (LUNA) and Solana (SOL) – the so-termed ‘SoLunAvax’ trade – fell as much as 12% in the past 24 hours. Polkadot (DOT), another Ethereum rival, saw its tokens fall by 14% before seeing a slight revival during Asian trading hours on Thursday.
Tokens of those networks have risen several hundred percent in the past year, mainly as investors looked for blockchain alternatives outside of Ethereum.
DOT found support at the $25 price level, one that has previously acted as resistance, and gained $1.26 at the time of writing. Falling under these prices could mean a drop to just over $20, where the next support exists.
SOL fell from the support level of $167 to $144 during Asian trading hours on Thursday, temporarily reaching prices last seen in October. The $130-$140 range remains crucial for SOL, according to the charts. If it falls below that range, SOL could drop to $78 if previous resistance levels are considered.
LUNA, which surged from $50 at the start of December to a high of $103 later in the month, continued the downtrend it has experienced during the past two weeks. Prices were at support levels of $75 during Asian trading hours on Thursday, and dropping below the support could trigger a fall to nearly $50.
Crypto markets seemed to stabilize at the time of writing as BTC prices hovered above the $43,000 level. Readings on the relative strength index (RSI) – a momentum indicator that measures the magnitude of price changes – dropped under the 30 level on several top cryptos, suggesting most assets were oversold after the sell-off and could see a brief upward rally.
The price drop was caused by the over $800 million in crypto liquidations, as reported. Slightly over 87% of these liquidations were on short positions, or from traders who bet on falling prices.
Liquidations occur when traders borrow funds from exchanges to bet on crypto prices using a relatively small initial capital, one that is forfeited when prices reach a predetermined liquidation level. Over $317 million worth of liquidations occurred on BTC-tracked futures products in the past 24 hours alone."
2,367,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/01/07/fantom-transactions-surge-ahead-of-avalanche-as-defi-prospects-heat-up/,Fantom Transactions Surge Ahead of Avalanche as DeFi Prospects Heat Up,"Opportunistic capital moves over to “yield farm” on Fantom with high returns on stablecoin deposits, analysts note.",2022-01-07,"Transactions on emerging layer 1 blockchain Fantom crossed those on Avalanche this week as crypto users looked for the next decentralized finance (DeFi) play. Layer 1 blockchains refer to individual blockchain platforms such as Ethereum, Fantom and Solana that can support products and services built atop their networks.
More than 1 million transactions were processed on the Fantom network, compared with 728,000 transactions on Avalanche earlier this week, research from Delphi Digital found. Such transactional activity on Fantom was previously seen in September, data from blockchain trackers show.
“As the narrative rotates from Avalanche to Fantom, it’s not surprising to see it reflected in transactions. Opportunistic capital moved over to yield farm on Fantom with high yields on stablecoins of around ~30-60% APR (annual percentage rate),” Delphi Digital analysts said in the note.
Both networks have processed more than 853,000 transactions in the past 24 hours, with the surge in Fantom mainly driven by upcoming DeFi projects and users interacting with current ones.
Interest in Fantom has increased as Daniele Sestagalli and Andre Cronje – developers known for launching protocols on Avalanche, Ethereum and Fantom that lock billions of dollars in value – announced a collaboration on an upcoming project that will deploy on Fantom.
Some say the announcement has contributed to a shift in focus on Fantom.
“The news of collaboration on an upcoming project that will use Fantom as the foundation for multi-chain deployment with a new token model quickly shifted the L1 narrative away from other Layer-1s such as Avalanche, and toward new Fantom project launches,” Yun Heng Lin, a special projects analyst at Delphi Digital, told CoinDesk in an email.
“Hundred Finance is a new project on Fantom that has recently received a lot of attention, and it is leveraging the now-popular ve-token model with high stablecoin yields of up to 30% APY (annual percentage yield). This, in turn, generated a lot of hype and speculation, as evidenced by Fantom surpassing Avalanche in daily transaction count,” he added.
Blockchains such as Avalanche (AVAX), Solana (SOL) and Terra (LUNA) and Fantom (FTM) have witnessed growth in both their native tokens and value locked on DeFi protocols in the past few months as industry participants sought DeFi opportunities away from Ethereum.
DeFi activity on Avalanche saw a multifold increase last year as projects after projects like decentralized money market Wonderland and decentralized exchange Trader Joe grew in popularity.
Total value locked (TVL) on the Avalanche network grew to as high as $13 billion in December from $72 million in February, making it the fourth-largest DeFi network in the world by TVL.
But the likes of Fantom are catching up.
Fantom-based DeFi protocols had $6 billion locked up as of Friday, up from $2.9 million last April. A bulk of the value is locked up on cross-chain exchange Multichain and decentralized exchange SpookySwap, which together account for nearly $4 billion of the TVL.
Future projects are expected to see even more inflows of funds into the Fantom market.
“Felix, Fantom’s Binance-powered hybrid exchange will ship early Q1 2022 and provide retail entry into Fantom’s ecosystem, and the Fantom Virtual Machine (FVM) upgrade are upcoming catalysts for Fantom,” Delphi’s Yun wrote."
3,243,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/12/fantom-harmony-lead-gains-in-major-cryptos-as-defi-narrative-heats-up/,"Fantom, Harmony Lead Gains in Major Cryptos as DeFi Narrative Heats Up",Near broke set a new high while tokens of Cosmos gained 10% in the past 24 hours.,2022-01-12,"The crypto market has surged in the past 24 hours, with bitcoin (BTC) gaining $3,000 on the back of a U.S. Federal Reserve commitment to curb the impact of inflation.
While all major cryptocurrencies saw prices spike higher, current favorites fantom (FTM), harmony (ONE), cosmos (ATOM) and near (NEAR) surged as high as 21%. Traders in crypto circles colloquially refer to a basket of these tokens as FOAN, a set of tokens associated with layer 1 blockchains, primed for decentralized finance (DeFi) activity with their cheap and fast networks.
Layer 1 blockchains are platforms such as Ethereum, Fantom and Solana that can support products and services built atop their networks. DeFi refers to blockchain-based products that rely on smart contracts instead of third parties to provide financial services to users.
Interest in FOAN comes on the back of a nearly 400% rise in solana (SOL), terra (LUNA), and avalanche (AVAX) – colloquially the SoLunAvax trade – in recent months.
FTM rose to $2.8 in European morning hours on Wednesday. The price had sunk to as low as $2.10 over the weekend before breaking through the $2.50 resistance level yesterday. FTM could be primed to reach the $3 mark should sentiment in the broader market stay intact.
Harmony's ONE token has surged more than 14% in the past 24 hours to trade at $0.32 at the time of writing. The price has risen upward of 25,200% in the past two years, data show. It's still short of the $0.37 all-time high it reached in October.
Price-charts suggest ONE is currently at a resistance level and could be set to regain its record if it breaks above $0.33. A rejection from current levels could see a price drop to the $0.27 zone.
ATOM and NEAR have added 10% and 13%, respectively, in the past 24 hours. ATOM broke through a $40 resistance level, while NEAR surpassed its previous record of $17.50 to trade at $18.20 at the time of writing.
The FOAN trade outperformed as other major cryptocurrencies posted more muted gains. Bitcoin rose 2%, while SOL, cardano (ADA), and ether (ETH) saw increases of up to 5%.
Fundamentals for the FOAN bet show promise for traders. DeFi activity on Cosmos and Near have grown in the past months ahead of planned upgrades on both blockchains. More than $154 million worth of assets are staked on Near-based DeFi protocols, with exchange and lending tool Ref Finance locking up over $104 million alone.
Transactional activity on Fantom has also heated up and overtook Avalanche's last week. More than 1 million transactions were processed on the Fantom network last Wednesday, with transactional activity higher than on Avalanche on both Thursday and Friday. This is despite Avalanche locking up more value than Fantom on DeFi applications – $11 billion compared with $6 billion – and hosting 127 DeFi protocols versus Fantom’s 112.
Interest in Fantom received an extra boost in the past week as Daniele Sestagalli and Andre Cronje – developers known for launching protocols on Avalanche, Ethereum and Fantom that lock billions of dollars in value – announced a collaboration on a project that will deploy on Fantom.
Harmony enjoyed much of its hype in the past month with the rise of DeFi Kingdom, an integrated game, exchange and non-fungible token (NFT) project that’s locked over $740 million worth of its native token, JEWEL, and other assets since its launch."
4,365,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/21/crypto-market-cap-falls-below-2t-amid-selloff/,Crypto Market Cap Falls Below $2T Amid Sell-Off,"As bitcoin and ether breach $40,000 and $3,000 support levels, some altcoins are trading 60%-80% down from cycle highs.",2022-01-21,"Cryptocurrencies are getting rekt.
Crypto blue-chips bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) breached key $40,000 and $3,000 support levels late Thursday evening, sending the broader alternative coin (altcoin) market into free fall.
According to data from CoinGecko, the total market cap of the cryptocurrency industry fell 11% to $1.9 trillion as of Friday afternoon during U.S. trading hours, down from an all-time high of $3.1 trillion in November.
Most major cryptocurrencies suffered double-digit losses and the recent slew of corrections increasingly signal bear market territory.
With the Nasdaq composite stock index down 5% in the past week, the sell-off in cryptocurrency markets appears to be echoing the movements of tech stocks.
There appears to be little safety from the bloodshed. Recent altcoin winners including Near Protocol’s NEAR (-17.5%), Fantom’s FTM (-15.4%) and Cosmos’ ATOM (-12.0%) tokens also suffered in the Friday sell-off.
NEAR, FTM and ATOM’s relatively strong performance against BTC and ETH on a year-to-date basis has some traders speculating about an altcoin decoupling. At least for the moment, today’s market downturn is sending crypto asset correlations up.
However, ATOM remains one of the only major tokens hovering in positive territory year to date (+3.0%).
Many of the alternative layer 1 blockchain tokens that earned top performer status in 2021 have seen their market capitalizations halved during the past few weeks.
While some have outperformed BTC and ETH (which are down 44% and 42%, respectively, from all-time highs), others are struggling to maintain their 2021 momentum.
“Ethereum-killer” Solana's SOL is down 52% from its all-time high. Terra’s LUNA and Avalanche’s AVAX tokens are down 30% and 59% from all-time highs, respectively.
Ethereum sidechain Polygon’s MATIC token is down 36% and Cardano’s ADA token is down 61% since their all-time highs in September, when the latter project announced the launch of their smart contracts.
Altcoins, which are riskier and typically trade at a higher volatility than BTC and ETH, suffered drawdowns as steep as 90-99% during the 2017-2018 crypto cycle.
According to data from Messari, the biggest category of altcoin losers are meme coins. Dogecoin (DOGE) is now nearly 80% down from its all-time high last May, despite a recent tweet from Tesla CEO Elon Musk that temporarily sent DOGE up as much as 33%.
Shiba inu (SHIB), another dog-themed coin that gained 1,607% last year, is down 71% from its all-time high."
5,236,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/26/dogecoin-leads-gains-in-major-cryptos-ahead-of-fed-meeting/,Dogecoin Leads Gains in Major Cryptos Ahead of Fed Meeting,The crypto market advanced for a second day after plunging over the weekend.,2022-01-26,"The broader crypto market recorded its second day of growth ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve statement on Wednesday. Prices of bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and other major cryptocurrencies rose as much as 7% in the past 24 hours, with meme coin dogecoin (DOGE) leading gains among the biggest assets by market capitalization.
Terra's LUNA tokens were among the only losers, posting a 4.6% decline, data from analytics tool CoinGecko showed.
Wednesday’s Fed meeting may reveal the bank's stance on the timing of an interest rate increase that many observers expect will come in March. The Fed has said it will tighten monetary policy with up to four hikes this year to keep inflation in check, prompting a sell-off in asset markets across the globe during the last few months. Bitcoin fell as much as 25% in the past month, while the crypto market has lost upward of $1 trillion in market capitalization in the same period.
Some analysts say a tightened policy could see investors flee into safer assets, which could, in turn, lead to a further drop in cryptocurrency prices.
“If the regulator tightens its rhetoric and announces the upcoming rate hike as early as March, all risky assets, including cryptocurrencies, could suffer significantly,” Alex Kuptsikevich, a senior financial analyst at FxPro, said in an email to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin held above $37,000 in European morning hours on Wednesday after dropping to under $33,500 on Monday, a move that caused the majors to fall as much as 25% at the time. The market has since recovered, with bitcoin, solana (SOL) and ether rebounding to last week’s price levels.
Tokens of some layer 1, or base, blockchains led gains outside of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization. Polygon (MATIC) and near (NEAR) have surged over 11% in 24 hours as investor demand rebounded after Monday’s drop.
Prices of MATIC were buoyed by the appointment of ex-YouTube gaming head Ryan Wyatt as CEO of Polygon Studios, a development lab that supports the creation of blockchain games and non-fungible tokens (NFT) on the Polygon network. Wyatt previously led YouTube's virtual- and augmented-reality projects and is expected to structure partnerships and investments in the Polygon ecosystem.
Some traders said a correlation between crypto prices and risky assets such as technology stocks exists as they share a similar set of investors.
“Crypto is owned by the same people that own growth stocks,"" Haseeb Qureshi, founder of crypto investment fund Dragonfly Capital, said in a telephone interview. ""When they start cutting risk, they cut back on crypto. That’s how the correlation is built.”
Cause for concern may be short lived. There are ""lots of reasons to believe that the secular macro rate of interest is still low. Interest rates are low because of incremental technology growth. Crypto is one of the few things that people realize has broad growth potential,” Qureshi said."
6,374,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/27/solana-avalanche-post-biggest-declines-after-hawkish-fed-outlook/,"Solana, Avalanche Post Biggest Declines After Hawkish Fed Outlook",Major cryptocurrencies gave back this week’s gains as global markets reacted to confirmation of upcoming rates hikes.,2022-01-27,"The slight recovery in the crypto markets this week all but retracted as major cryptocurrencies dipped up to 7% in the past 24 hours after a hawkish U.S. Federal Reserve outlook to cut back on inflation.
Wednesday, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said the central bank was ready to raise interest rates in March and could even hike rates “at every meeting” to tackle concerns of inflation after a record asset-buying program. Seven more meetings are scheduled for this year.
Asian markets were spooked on Thursday. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index, which tracks the 60 largest companies, was down 2%, while South Korea’s KOSPI ended the day with a 3% decline. In Europe, Germany’s DAX, which tracks blue-chip companies, started the day with a nearly 1% drop. Futures of U.S. stock markets fell marginally in pre-market trading.
The decline in equities also passed on to the crypto markets, which functions as a risk asset class in investor portfolios. Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), the world’s two largest cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, fell 4% in the past 24 hours to support levels. Bitcoin fell under $37,000 to hit support at $35,500 before gaining over $1,000 at the time of writing.
“Bitcoin showed positive dynamics all day against the backdrop of growing stock indices,” analysts at FxPro told CoinDesk in an email. “Up until the Fed meeting, the first cryptocurrency was gaining over 6%, hitting 5-day highs above $38,800. However, BTC began to fall almost immediately after the announcement of the results of the Fed's two-day meeting”
“The regulator announced a curtailment of bond purchases in early March, as well as an imminent rate hike, followed by a reduction in the Fed's balance sheet,” analysts added.
Major cryptocurrencies like Avalanche (AVAX) and Solana (SOL) fell as much as 8% during Asian morning hours, while tokens of emerging blockchains, such as Cosmos’ ATOM and Near’s NEAR token fell 13%.
Layer 1, or base, bets by crypto investors fueled price rises in ATOM, NEAR and Fantom’s FTM tokens in the past months, which was buoyed by investors’ search for yields and upside outside of the Ethereum ecosystem. But such tokens have been among the worst performers in the recent crypto sell-off, falling sharply in the past month alone.
In the past week, SOL was down 34% while NEAR investors nursed losses of 33%. Terra’s LUNA, Polkadot’s DOT and Cardano’s ADA tokens saw similar decline in the same period, data from analytics tool CoinGecko shows. Bitcoin, in contrast, fell 13%.
A saving grace among top cryptocurrencies by market capitalization were the two tokens of Theta Network’, THETA and TFUEL. The tokens power services on the blockchain-based video sharing platform and were up 13% and 22% respectively in the past 24 hours. The move came ahead of an airdrop to THETA holders scheduled for Feb.1, which may have fueled interest among investors and traders.
Crypto markets staged a slight recovery at press time, with some investors continuing to downplay the effects of Fed policy on the broader market.
There are ""lots of reasons to believe that the secular macro rate of interest is still low. Interest rates are low because of incremental technology growth,” Haseeb Qureshi, founder of crypto investment fund Dragonfly Capital, said in a telephone interview.
“Crypto is one of the few things that people realize has broad growth potential,” Qureshi added."
7,371,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/27/bitcoin-ether-traders-lose-200m-to-liquidations-in-choppy-market/,"Bitcoin, Ether Traders Lose $200M to Liquidations in Choppy Market",Bitcoin traders alone lost over $103 million.,2022-01-27,"Futures traders betting on upside for bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) lost a cumulative $204 million to liquidations as prices dipped over the past 24 hours, Coinglass data show.
Liquidations occur when an exchange closes a trader’s leveraged position as a safety mechanism due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. That happens primarily in futures trading, which only tracks asset prices as opposed to spot trading, where traders own the actual assets.
Bitcoin traders alone lost over $103 million as the world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization fell to as low as $35,550 before recovering to over $36,600 in the Asian morning. Ether saw similar price action, falling to under $2,400 before gaining to $2,440 at the time of writing.
The moves came after a hawkish U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that ended Wednesday. The central bank said it remained committed to keeping inflation in check with a series of planned interest rate increases this year, a move that caused market declines across all major asset classes, including equities and cryptocurrencies.
“Digital assets, including bitcoin, tend to become more correlated with stocks during stress periods when most of the investment markets go risk-off,"" said Mikkel Morch, director at crypto hedge fund ARK36, in a note to CoinDesk. ""Unsurprisingly, then, the crypto markets moved almost in tandem with the stock market following Fed Chair Jerome Powell's press conference in the aftermath of this month’s FOMC meeting."" The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets eight times a year to discuss monetary policy changes and review economic and financial conditions.
A downturn in crypto markets saw nearly $319 million in liquidations in the past 24 hours, most of it from bitcoin and ether traders. Action in altcoins was more muted, with traders of futures tracking Solana’s SOL and Terra’s LUNA losing $8.77 million and $6.55 million respectively.
More than 53% of all traders were long, or betting on a market gain. Crypto exchange Binance saw over $124 million in losses, the most among all tracked exchanges, followed by OKX, which earlier this month renamed from OKEx, at $92 million. A majority of these trades were focused on bitcoin and ether tracked futures.
Over 96,700 traders had to liquidate positions, data from analytics tool Coinglass showed, with the largest occurring on crypto exchange Bybit – a bitcoin trade valued at over $5.55 million."
8,175,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/28/anchor-protocol-reserves-slide-as-money-markets-founder-talks-down-concerns/,Anchor Protocol Reserves Slide as Money Market's Founder Talks Down Concerns,The reserves have slumped 50% in four weeks because of an imbalance between loan demand and deposits.,2022-01-28,"The reserves of Terra-based lending and borrowing protocol Anchor, which offers a supposedly industry-beating benchmark deposit rate of around 20%, are sliding fast as a result of the crypto market crash.
Data provided by Terra.Engineer shows reserves have slumped by half to 35 million UST – that's Terra's native U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin – in four weeks. It works out to an average decline of about 1.25 million UST per day. The crypto community is worried that the reserves will be drained in three weeks or so in the absence of corrective measures.
""The Anchor Yield Reserve was created as a buffer to maintain the 20% interest stability,"" pseudonymous market expert and Anchor user Duo Nine, who operates the Twitter handle @DU09BTC, told CoinDesk. ""However, this reserve has been running a deficit for weeks due to more deposits than borrowers on Anchor Protocol. At this rate, it will hit zero in 20 days.""
LUNA, Terra’s native token, dropped below the $50 mark on Friday and is down over 17% over the past 24 hours. It was recently trading at $49.31.
While most decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms allow demand-supply forces to determine lending and borrowing rates, Anchor offers an almost fixed 20% annualized percentage yield (APY) to users depositing UST. The so-called ""anchor rate"" is set by holders of Anchor's governance token, ANC. At press time, other industry heavyweights were offering lending rates of less than 10%, according to data source defirate.com.
The project finances the super-high deposit rate from three income sources: interest charged to borrowers, staking rewards earned from borrowers' collateral – such as liquid staking proof-of-stake assets from major blockchains like bonded luna (bLUNA) or bonded ether (bETH) – and liquidation fees. Luna is the native token of Terra's blockchain, while ether (ETH) powers the Ethereum blockchain.
If the realized yield from the three income sources is greater than the anchor rate, the excess amount is kept aside as the UST-denominated Anchor Yield Reserve. The protocol taps into the reserve when the realized yield is less than the anchor rate, ensuring depositors are paid as promised.
The structure makes the platform's reserve vulnerable to market crashes and the resulting imbalance between demand for loans and supply of deposits. During bearish periods, traders are less likely to borrow UST to seek higher returns elsewhere, leading to a decline in loan demand. They are also more likely to supply UST tokens in a bid to make a relatively stable return, pushing deposits higher.
That's what seems to have happened since December, forcing the platform to persistently tap the reserve, as tweeted by Do Kwon, co-founder of Terraform Labs, the decentralized financial payment network behind Anchor.
Data from Anchor Protocol show total deposits stood at 5.71 billion UST at press time, while the amount borrowed was 1.37 billion UST. That's a loan demand shortage of over 300%. The yield reserve was 34.13 million UST, and the anchor rate was 19.88%.
The situation perhaps indicates that fixed rates are unsustainable over the long run and yields are better determined by free interaction of demand and supply forces.
""The fixed yield of around 20% may not be sustainable,"" Duo Nine said. ""With the protocol facing a deficit, it needs fresh money in the form of increased loan demand to keep the anchor rate at 20%.""
Terraform Labs' Kwon is trying to soothe concerns about a depletion in reserves, saying the mechanism was created precisely to ensure stability during market downturns. Early today, Kwon assured crypto followers on Twitter that the protocol would function as a regular DeFi money market if the much-feared scenario of reserves dropping to zero occurred.
""If we were to get to this hypothetical situation, Anchor will *still* offer the highest return on stablecoins. By far. It will be fine,"" Kwon tweeted.
It remains to be seen what corrective measures are implemented. Terraform Labs provided a cash injection of 70 million UST following the crypto crash of May-June 2021, which punctured the broader market bull run.
""The deployment is a one-off solution that will prevent the need for future intervention, allocating a significant runway for the protocol to introduce self-sustainable mechanics even during periods of low borrowing demand,"" Terra Research Forum's blog post Bolstering Anchor's Sustainability published in July said.
Experts say a cash injection could be a temporary solution. It will, after all, have little impact on loan demand.
""A capital injection will prolong the health of the system, but generally, they need to either reduce the deposit rate or increase the utility for ANC token, so it's not viewed as a farming coin,"" Hassan Bassiri, vice president of portfolio management at Arca, a digital asset management firm, said
Borrowers providing collateral are given ANC tokens proportional to the amount borrowed.
""ANC is also used as incentives to bootstrap borrow demand and initial deposit rate stability. The protocol distributes ANC tokens every block to stablecoin borrowers, proportional to the amount borrowed,"" the official explainer says.
An ANC token with increased utility might bring loan demand and greater income for the protocol, alleviating the pressure on the reserve. Kwon has assured that he is resolved to finding ways to subsidize the yield reserve."
9,373,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/28/market-wrap-bitcoin-stalls-below-40k-analysts-point-to-risks-in-defi/,"Market Wrap: Bitcoin Stalls Below $40K, Analysts Point to Risks in DeFi","Some observers are concerned about a ""crypto winter.""",2022-01-28,"Bitcoin (BTC) held above $37,000 on Friday and was up about 3% over the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, some alternative cryptocurrencies began to stabilize after a volatile week.
Analysts were also looking for signs of a possible bounce in equity markets, which could encourage crypto buying. So far, some traders appear to be on the sidelines in both traditional and crypto markets. The S&P 500 is roughly flat over the past week, compared with a 1% gain in BTC and a 3% drop in ETH over the same period.
""Investors continue to withdraw from U.S. stocks amid the expected tightening of the US Federal Reserve's monetary policy,"" Alex Kuptsikevich, an analyst at FxPro, wrote in an email to CoinDesk.
If selling continues, more investors could start to reduce their positions on risky assets, and cryptocurrencies may be hit first, according to Kuptsikevich. That means a short-term price bounce could be limited.
Further, given macroeconomic headwinds, some analysts are concerned about a coming ""crypto winter,"" similar to what occurred in 2017-2018. But it appears that winter is already here, especially given the nearly 40% drop in BTC from its all-time high of close to $69,000 in November.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $37696, +5.55%
●Ether (ETH): $2517, +7.51%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4432, +2.43%
●Gold: $1790 per troy ounce, −0.17%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 1.78%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
The recent underperformance in some altcoins and decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens indicates heightened risk in crypto markets. And when uncertainty is high, some traders tend to rotate into bitcoin, which is deemed to be less risky in the crypto market.
The CoinDesk markets team has covered the sharp sell-offs across various tokens over the past two weeks, which could keep some crypto buyers on the sidelines. Here is a rundown of risks we identified.
Tokens related to Wonderland developer plunged:
In the past 24 hours, Popsicle Finance’s ICE fell as much as 22%, Wonderland’s TIME fell 15%, and Abracadabra’s SPELL dropped 15%. These are tokens created by Daniele Sestagalli, who gained a cult following in recent months thanks to his community-centric approach toward crypto projects. His protocols were worth billions of dollars at their peak, but those fortunes have since faded away, CoinDesk's Shaurya Malwa reported.
A falling out between two startup projects on Cardano:
On Wednesday, CoinDesk's Lyllah Ledesma wrote about the SundaeSwap debacle that left CardStarter users with steep losses. The conflict is between CardStarter, which describes itself as a ""decentralized accelerator"" for startup projects focused on Cardano, and SundaeSwap, a decentralized exchange built on the Cardano platform.
And then, there's potential contagion risk in Terra's UST stablecoin:
LUNA, Terra’s native token, was down as much as 10% during the past 24 hours due to yet another scandal. LUNA is on Abracadabra, a DeFi lending platform run by Sestagalli. LUNA was partly created for issuing stablecoins. The reserves of Terra-based lending and borrowing protocol Anchor, which offers a supposedly industry-beating benchmark deposit rate of around 20%, are also sliding fast as a result of the crypto market crash. Read more here.
Terra’s UST stablecoin was thrown into flux because the tokens used to leverage some stablecoins related to Sestagalli are in a mess. Some observers following the asset peg saga are worried UST and MIM could serve as a “contagion” that destabilizes other pools on Curve, CoinDesk's Andrew Thurman reported.
Sandbox (SAND) Announces $50,000,000 accelerator fund: Popular gaming crypto The Sandbox (SAND) is partnering with a global venture company to open a fund for developing metaverse startups. According to a news release, SAND has committed $50 million to Hong Kong-based accelerator company Brinc for The Sandbox Metaverse Accelerator Program, which will invest $250,000 in 100 new metaverse altcoins. Read more here.
ChainLink Capital targets $100M in assets for two crypto funds: Crypto-focused venture capital fund ChainLink Capital Management has set a target to reach $100 million of assets under management each for its Luna and Ama funds this year, general partner Andrew Hoppin told CoinDesk in an interview. The funds had about $30 million and $13 million under management, respectively, at the end of last year. Read more here.
FriesDAO wants to start a crypto-crowdfunded fast-food franchise: The crypto group plans to buy a fast-food restaurant following ConstitutionDAO’s “let’s buy (and govern) a real-world asset with crowdfunded tokens” playbook. Read more here.
Hong Kong Regulators Impose Limits on Investing in Spot Crypto ETFs
Crypto Has Parallels With Subprime Mortgage Crisis, Says Paul Krugman
Goldman: Bitcoin, Altcoins to Become More Correlated With Traditional Financial Market Variables
Crypto Industry Heavyweights Form Political Action Committee for US Midterms: Report
Digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
There were no losers in the CoinDesk 20 on Friday.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive, and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
10,177,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/01/28/chainlink-capital-targets-100m-in-assets-for-2-crypto-funds/,ChainLink Capital Targets $100M in Assets for 2 Crypto Funds,The “fund of funds” firm wants to raise $100 million each for its Ama and Luna funds this year.,2022-01-28,"Crypto-focused venture capital fund ChainLink Capital Management has set a target to reach $100 million in assets under management each for its Luna and Ama funds this year, general partner Andrew Hoppin told CoinDesk in an interview. The funds had about $30 million and $13 million under management, respectively, at the end of last year.
ChainLink Capital isn’t related to the Chainlink token and protocol, and the Luna fund isn’t tied to LUNA, the native token of the Terra blockchain.
Founded in 2018, ChainLink embraces a “fund of funds” strategy to provide diversification and exposure to crypto experts while mitigating the risks that are “still unfortunately quite abundant these days in crypto,” said Hoppin, a former chief technology officer for the New York State Senate.
The Luna Fund is backed by large family and multifamily offices. It includes hedge funds that manage tokens, including bitcoin and ethereum, and funds that generate returns from liquid token holdings, which include lending and staking. Holdings include Coinbase and non-fungible token marketplace Rarible.
The newer Ama Fund, which was launched in the fall of 2020, includes hedge funds taking a more risk-neutral approach to digital asset investments. The fund has noted blockchain analyst Willy Woo as its research head.
ChainLink also has a “liquid venture strategy,"" the firm’s term for “being really good at venture capital-type investing and also liquid portfolio investing,” Hoppin said.
“We think that’s the best way to do venture investing in crypto because, unlike traditional technology company equity investing, the time frames to liquidity are so fast in crypto,” Hoppin continued.
Asked about investment trends for 2022, Hoppin said this could prove to be the year of the decentralized autonomous organization (DAO).
“I’m really excited about [DAOs], not just in terms of investment opportunities, but in terms of a way to reorganize the way that our world works,” he said.
Read more: Will DAOs Replace Crypto Venture Capital?"
11,56,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/28/terras-luna-dumps-17-after-wonderland-controversy/,Terra's LUNA Dumps After Wonderland Controversy,The native token of the Terra blockchain dropped sharply after it was confirmed a QuadrigaCX co-founder is tied to the Wonderland project.,2022-01-28,"LUNA, the native token of the Terra ecosystem, is suffering the effects of negative sentiment after Thursday’s Wonderland drama.
The token, which backs Terra's algorithmic UST stablecoin, was down over 17% on Friday morning, according to data from CoinMarketCap. It traded as low as $47.56, the lowest price since November. Recently, LUNA was changing hands at $51.89, down from its all-time high of $100.17 in December.
The price drop comes a day after pseudonymous Twitter user “Zach” exposed a core member of the Wonderland project to be Michael Patryn, the co-founder of the infamous Canadian exchange QuadrigaCX.
The effects of that revelation made its way to the markets relating to another project also run by Wonderland founder Daniele Sestagalli, Abracadabra. The kerfuffle is affecting Terra because UST can be staked to lend out MIM, a stablecoin that is soft-pegged to the U.S. dollar and minted by the Abracadabra lending platform. The price of LUNA is tied to the total value locked of the UST stablecoin.
Canada-based QuadrigaCX, thought to be a Ponzi scheme, famously collapsed in 2019 after its main founder, Gerald Cotten, was said to have died in India. Patryn and the remaining partner claim they lost access to C$115 million in customer funds. That wasn’t the only controversy surrounding Patryn; he also pleaded guilty to credit and bank fraud in 2005 and admitted to burglary, theft and computer fraud in 2007.
However, Sestagalli seems to be uninterested in the past, posting a message Thursday, “I am of the opinion of giving second chances.”
In response to the drama and Sestagalli’s handling of the situation, TIME, the native Wonderland token, dropped 32%.
Similarly, MIM slipped off its dollar peg in a sharp drop, trading at $0.93 during Thursday afternoon trading hours. The coin rebounded quickly and was recently at $0.98.
Read more: How Did a Former Quadriga Exec End Up Running a DeFi Protocol? Wonderland Founder Explains"
12,237,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/01/31/ethereum-suffers-worst-month-in-nearly-2-years-sol-falls-even-harder/,"Ethereum Suffers Worst Month in Nearly 2 Years, SOL Falls Even Harder","Most major altcoins have sunk more than bitcoin, with all members of the CoinDesk 20 digital assets deeply in the red in January.",2022-01-31,"Ether (ETH), the native token of the Ethereum blockchain, has suffered its biggest monthly price decline since March 2020, tumbling alongside bitcoin in one of worst-ever starts to a year in cryptocurrency markets.
Ether is down 31% in January, while bitcoin (BTC) has fallen 22%.
The sell-off also claimed some of the hottest tokens from 2021, in several cases vaporizing half of their market value, or more. Terra’s LUNA has declined 50% in January, while Solana’s SOL has dropped 49% and Avalanche’s AVAX has lost 42%.
Bitcoin's dominance ratio – its share of the overall crypto market capitalization – is sitting at about 42%, having dipped below 39% mid-January, according to Denis Vinokourov, head of research at Corinthian Digital. This time last year, bitcoin's dominance was at 62%.
The numbers suggest that the past year's rapid run-up in altcoin relative valuations has reversed recently amid the broader sell-off in crypto markets; the highest flyers have suffered the biggest comedowns.
Ethereum also continued to surrender its lead in decentralized finance (DeFi), where its dominance is at around 59%, according to data from defillama. The smart-contract blockchain's prowess in DeFi slipped earlier this month to an all-time low of 57%.
“This points to strong risk appetite, as opposed to capital flight away from riskier assets,” said Vinokourov.
It’s become evident that the macroeconomic forces that helped to fuel crypto’s bull run previously are turning in the opposite direction, creating uncertainty. Those include the Federal Reserve's pivot toward hawkish monetary policies – with tighter financial conditions designed to attack inflation – from a previously dovish stance of keeping borrowing costs low to stoke growth.
“This has led to the highest correlations between crypto and traditional markets since March 2020,” said Lucas Outumuro, head of research at IntoTheBlock. ""By accelerating interest rate hikes and likely beginning quantitative tightening, the Federal Reserve is disincentivizing investment in order to manage inflation.”
According to Outumuro, the outlook ""seems priced in now.""
""There is also potential upside surprise in the case that the Fed moves slower than expected,” he said.
Altcoins are unlikely to pick up until the bitcoin market turns positive, says Lennard Neo, head of research at Stack Funds. “Any action would likely begin with BTC or even ETH,” he said.
Neo doesn't see the current downward action as a long-term issue, but rather says that markets are still in a phase of sideways trading and price discovery, with the inflation picture uncertain and interest rates set to rise.
All members of the CoinDesk 20 digital assets are in the red for the month. Filecoin (FIL) was down 44%, and Polygon’s MATIC lost 38%.
The last time the entirety of the CoinDesk 20 traded in the red over the course of a full calendar month was last June."
13,196,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/01/terra-founder-floats-38m-proposal-for-american-sports-league-deal/,Terra Founder Floats $38M Proposal for American Sports League Deal,Terra founder Do Kwon proposed sponsoring an unidentified major American professional sports league franchise to the tune of $38.5 million.,2022-02-01,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon floated a funding proposal for $38.5 million from the Terra community treasury to sponsor a major American sports league team he didn't name. The funding would be in the form of TerraUSD (UST) stablecoins, or tokens pegged on a 1:1 basis with U.S. dollars.
“This proposal involves a legendary sports franchise and a household name in one of the major four American professional sports leagues – the NFL, NBA, NHL and MLB,” Kwon said on Tuesday. “For legal reasons, we cannot reveal the identity of the franchise until after the voting period has concluded and the partnership agreement is settled.”
The National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), National Hockey League (NHL), and Major League Baseball (MLB) are four of the biggest sports leagues in the world. They together attract billions of dollars in advertising revenue each year and offer some of the most-watched sporting events.
The Community Pool of Singapore-based Terra is one of the largest decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) in the crypto industry, with over $2.74 billion in assets.
A DAO is a blockchain-based organization often governed by its native crypto token. Holders collectively vote on decisions to determine the DAO’s future, unlike traditional companies where decisions are taken by an elected board.
According to Kwon’s proposal, the deal would help fund a five-year exclusive partnership to promote the Terra brand across the franchise’s home venue and its television network.
Under the terms of the agreement, the community pool will pay the full amount upon execution of the deal. This represents annual fees of $7.50 million a year for five years and $650,000 to cover construction, renovation and redesign costs.
If the proposal is passed by the Terra community, the funds will be distributed to a multi-signature (multisig) wallet controlled by a newly formed Terra Community Trust (TCT).
The Terra DAO is the direct beneficiary of this wallet and would have three trustees: 1. Delphi Labs General Counsel Gabriel Shapiro, RealVision co-founder Remi Tetot, and Draft Kings board member Ryan Moore.
“The delivery of funds to the TCT and eventually the sports franchise will be executed via a UST to [U.S. dollar over-the-counter] deal with a leading and well-reputed trading firm,” Kwon said in the proposal.
While Terra’s proposal could make it one of the first instances of a DAO funding a sporting partnership, several crypto companies have turned to sports companies as a means of promotion. Such funding has crossed $1 billion in the past year.
Crypto services firm Crypto.com leads the list. In the past year, the firm inked a $700 million agreement to rename the iconic Staples Center in Los Angeles to Crypto.com Arena, struck a $100 million deal with Formula 1, announced a three-year partnership with soccer's Paris Saint-Germain, and became the official jersey patch sponsor of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team.
Crypto exchange FTX also has multiple partnerships. In the past year, the Bahamas-based crypto exchange purchased the naming rights to esports giant TSM in June for $210 million, secured a 19-year deal with Miami Heat, a five-year partnership with MLB, and secured the naming rights to UC Berkeley’s football stadium.
Terra’s LUNA tokens were among the top gainers on Tuesday, rising as much as 22% in 24 hours. Price surged to as much as $53.96 in the Asian morning before tumbling down to $51.80 at the time of writing."
14,229,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/07/shiba-inus-shib-rockets-26-leads-memecoin-gains/,"Shiba Inu's SHIB Rockets 26%, Leads Meme Coin Gains",Several dog-themed tokens were the top gainers on Monday amid a recovery in the broader crypto market.,2022-02-07,"Shiba Inu-themed tokens were the top gainers during early Asian trading hours on Monday, gaining as much as 26% in the past 24 hours, data from analytics tool CoinGecko showed.
The move came amid a broader recovery in the crypto market as bitcoin and ether regained the $42,000 and $3,000 price levels respectively. Gains in the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization ranged from a low of 1.6% for Terra’s LUNA to a high of 9.9% for XRP.
Meme coins led market moves outside of the top 10 cryptocurrencies. Shiba Inu’s SHIB tokens surged to $0.000029 during Asian trading hours from the $0.000022 level on Sunday evening, a surge of over 24%, while Dogecoin’s DOGE jumped to $0.169 from $0.145.
Price charts showed SHIB hit resistance at the $0.000029 level, causing a sell-off during the Asian morning hours that brought the price lower.
The price movement caused nearly $10 million in losses to liquidations for traders of SHIB-tracked futures products. In the past 24 hours, traders lost $4.31 million to Binance’s 1000SHIB futures product, which holds 1,000 SHIB per contract. Traders also lost $5.49 million in SHIB futures. Over 74% of SHIB futures were short, or betting against a price rally.
SHIB’s weekend surge came days after developers unveiled a tie-up with Welly’s, a fast-food chain selling burgers and fries. The partnership involves rebranding Welly’s stores to include Shiba Inu-themed products and imagery, and the issuance of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) for customers, developers said. Community members can buy products using SHIB and participate in Welly’s expansion via Shiba Inu’s decentralized governance forum ""Doggy DAO.""
Elsewhere, the price of Floki Inu’s FLOKI – another Shiba Inu-themed token – rose 17% to $0.00004 during Asian trading hours, recovering some of its losses from last week after developers disabled its cross-chain bridge when they discovered an exploit. The bridge allowed users to transfer assets between the Ethereum and Binance Smart Chain networks. No FLOKI was affected in the attack, developers confirmed at the time."
15,376,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/07/xrp-leads-gains-in-major-cryptos-bitcoin-holds-above-42k/,"XRP Leads Gains in Major Cryptos, Bitcoin Holds Above $42K","Stronger-than-expected U.S. jobs data and bitcoin adoption by two major credit unions supported a price recovery, analysts said.",2022-02-07,"The crypto market extended its recovery during morning hours in Europe following a weekend bounce, with major cryptocurrencies rising over the past 24 hours.
Bitcoin and ether, the two largest cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, advanced 3%. Some analysts said Friday's release of stronger-than-expected U.S. jobs data buoyed investor sentiment, which supported an increase in the price of bitcoin.
“Despite U.S. jobs data on Friday being better than expected, global markets responded positively to the news, as investors admire the strength of the labor market,” Marcus Sotiriou, an analyst at cryptocurrency brokerage GlobalBlock, said in an email to CoinDesk.
“This positive reaction ignited a bounce for the crypto markets too. Bitcoin broke out of two similar downtrends on the RSI within the past year, which both resulted in incredible rallies, hence potentially foreshadowing a Bitcoin rally to the upside,” Sotiriou said. The relative strength index (RSI) is an indicator that measures the magnitude of price changes over a certain time period. RSI readings above 70 are considered overbought, and those below 30 indicate an asset may be oversold.
The RSI level on bitcoin reached 61 during European trading hours on Monday after a jump from an ""oversold"" level of 20 in January, when the cryptocurrency traded at $35,550. Bitcoin was trading above $42,500 at the time of publication, with possible resistance at $46,000.
Some traders expect bitcoin to see more interest from investors even as the U.S. Federal Reserve tightens its monetary policy.
“It is worth noting that the Nonfarm Payrolls can force the Fed to move faster to tighten monetary policy,” Alex Kuptsikevich, a senior financial analyst at FxPro, wrote in an email to CoinDesk. “If cryptocurrencies manage to resist and continue to grow, this will be a serious trend reversal order. Just like on Friday, when investors decided to buy BTC in order to protect investments from inflation.”
Elsewhere, gains in the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization ranged from a low of 1.6% for Terra’s LUNA to as high as 9.9% for XRP.
Meme coins led market moves outside of the top 10. Shiba Inu’s SHIB tokens surged to $0.000029 during Asian trading hours from the $0.000022 level on Sunday evening, as reported.
Ripple's XRP token led gains among major cryptocurrencies with a 16% increase to over $0.77. The price surged amid positive sentiment around the court case in which the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleges the blockchain-based payments firm sold XRP as an unregistered security to the public.
In the latest proceedings last week, New York Southern District Court Judge Analisa Torres ordered the unsealing of three documents in connection with the case.
Torres also granted the payment giant's request to file a response to the motion to strike fair notice defense. That defense focuses on whether Ripple had reasonable notice from the SEC about whether XRP sales were illegal, according to law firm Hogan & Hogan.
Some industry attorneys said the proceedings suggested the case could be headed for a verdict soon. XRP added $0.07 on Friday, holding the $0.66 level over the weekend before Monday’s surge to $0.78. XRP has slightly broken above resistance and could rise to $0.79 if the current trend continues."
16,201,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/09/washington-nationals-to-explore-ust-stablecoin-in-dao-approved-partnership-deal/,Washington Nationals to ‘Explore’ Terra’s UST Stablecoin in DAO-Approved Partnership Deal,The MLB team’s deal with the Terra network is even bigger than previously reported.,2022-02-09,"The Washington Nationals baseball team said Wednesday it will “explore” in-stadium payments of Terra’s UST stablecoin as part of a nearly $40 million sponsorship.
The thrust of that deal centers on exclusive seating naming rights. For the next five years, the ballpark’s home plate VIP lounge will be called “The Terra Club” and feature crypto branding prominently.
“The Nationals continue to push the envelope,” Mark D. Lerner, managing principal owner of the Washington Nationals, said in a blog post. “We are excited to partner with Terra to name our most exclusive club and explore bringing powerful new fan experiences to Nationals Park, including the use of UST cryptocurrency to make purchases.”
CoinDesk preempted the official announcement with a cheeky investigative essay published Tuesday that correctly predicted the tie-up.
Read more: Terra Wants to Spend $40M on a Mystery Sports Deal. We Think It’s With This MLB Team
Accepting UST payments would place the Nationals in a small but growing field of crypto-friendly sports stadiums. Mark Cuban’s Dallas Mavericks basketball team began taking DOGE last year. Meanwhile, fellow National Basketball Association franchise the Sacramento Kings tapped bitcoin back in 2014.
The Nationals sponsorship is also notable because of its crossover with crypto governance. The Terra decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) overwhelmingly voted in favor of partnering with a mystery U.S. sports franchise to the tune of nearly $40 million. Holders of the network's native LUNA token went into the vote, which concluded Tuesday, knowing nearly every aspect of the sponsorship – save the name of their prospective partner.
“This first-of-its-kind partnership between a DAO and a sports franchise opens a new world of opportunities for bringing crypto and DeFi to the masses,” Do Kwon, the founder of Terraform Labs, said in a statement. “By approving this sponsorship deal, the community has a new way to engage and educate the public, including the policy makers doing important work in Washington, D.C., about decentralized money and the burgeoning technology that underlies it.”
Kwon and Terraform Labs are both currently under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on possible charges that the Mirror Protocol, developed by Terraform, allows synthetic stocks to trade in violation of U.S. law.
The SEC served Kwon a subpoena last year during a cryptocurrency conference, though he denied he had been served until he decided to file a lawsuit against the SEC alleging the regulator violated norms in serving him the subpoena.
UPDATE (Feb. 9, 2022, 17:15 UTC): Adds SEC lawsuit context."
17,96,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/22/foundation-focused-on-ust-stablecoin-raises-1b-in-luna-sale/,Foundation Focused on UST Stablecoin Raises $1B in LUNA Sale,The fresh funding will go toward a new reserve to help strengthen the peg for the UST stablecoin.,2022-02-22,"Singapore-based Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a nonprofit organization supporting the growth of the Terra ecosystem, has raised $1 billion through the sale of LUNA, the native token of the Terra blockchain.
The funding will go toward building a bitcoin-denominated foreign-exchange reserve for UST, an algorithmic-based stablecoin in the Terra ecosystem, according to a statement.
The funding round, which ranks among the largest in crypto history, was led by Jump Crypto and Three Arrows Capital, with participation from DeFiance Capital, Republic Capital, GSR Ventures and Tribe Capital, among others.
According to Luna Foundation Guard, the UST Forex Reserve aims to strengthen and protect the peg of the UST stablecoin, which is algorithmic-based, meaning that it relies on market incentives as opposed to being backed by collateral to maintain its price, like Tether and Circle are.
“Although the widespread adoption of UST as a consistently stable asset through market volatility should already refute this, a decentralized Reserve can provide an additional avenue to maintain the peg in contractionary cycles that reduces the reflexivity of the system,” Terra wrote in a tweet.
Terra has set tongues wagging recently. Earlier this month, the Terra network spent $40 million on a sponsorship for the Washington Nationals baseball team. And last week, a U.S. District Court judge in New York orders Terraform Labs and CEO Do Kwon to comply with subpoenas that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had issued.
The price of LUNA was up 3.5% over the past 12 hours, outperforming the otherwise red-dominated crypto market on Tuesday.
The news was earlier reported by The Block."
18,77,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/23/first-mover-asia-china-cbdc-is-no-government-version-of-bitcoin-terras-luna-other-altcoins-jump/,"First Mover Asia: China CBDC Is No Government Version of Bitcoin; Terra's Luna, Other Altcoins Jump","The eCNY and other CBDCs are digital versions of cash issued by a central bank, unlike bitcoin which has no single issuing authority; bitcoin surpassed $39,000 on Tuesday before dropping into the red.",2022-02-23,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Markets: Bitcoin started the day promisingly before dropping, but altcoins Terra, Avalanche and Shiba Inu rose.
Insights: Canadian crypto sanctions show how crypto and CBDCs diverge.
Technician's take: Bitcoin tested the $40,000 resistance level on Wednesday before declining.
Bitcoin (BTC): $37,306 -1.8%
Ether (ETH): $2,594 -1.1%
Bitcoin spurted ahead through much of Wednesday morning, mirroring the performance of equity markets that, for the first time in days, seemed oblivious to the mushrooming tensions on the Russia-Ukraine border.
But by midday, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had declined into red territory after Ukraine declared a state of emergency and urged its citizens living in Russia to depart. U.S. intelligence said that a Russian invasion was imminent.
At the time of publication, bitcoin was trading below $37,500, down about 2% over the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands below $2,600, down about 1% during the same period. A number of altcoins had a good day with Terra's luna up about 10%, and avalanche and shiba inu registering healthy gains. Cardano and Solana also rose for the day.
""The altcoins in the past 24 hours are having a very early spring,"" said Marc Lopresti, the managing director of asset manager, The Strategic Funds, on CoinDesk TV. ""We're going to see continued strength in the altcoins, particularly those that are part of the metaverse,"" he added.
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,225 -1.8%
DJIA: 33,131 -1.3%
Nasdaq: 13,037 -2.5%
Gold: $1,908 +0.5%
Canadian Crypto Sanctions Show How Crypto and CBDCs Diverge
Central bank digital currencies (CBDC) are often equated to bitcoin. Some go as far as to say the eCNY, China’s CBDC, is a “government version of bitcoin.”
But the Ottawa trucker convoy has proven this to be anything but.
As CoinDesk reported Wednesday, the 34 crypto wallets sanctioned by the Canadian government are now mostly empty.
The protestors’ funds are safu. Some of the bitcoin landed on exchanges but at least $500,000 went to another wallet – maybe on a non-Canadian exchange, or maybe a self-custodied one – and was then sent further afield.
Money tied up in fiat currency, however, suffered a different fate because it was frozen in a dragnet to suffocate the protest. The thaw of accounts has already begun and the protest is over.
Civil liberties associations in Canada are concerned at the speed of the freeze and the lack of transparency around the process. Usually lists of designated nationals are public documents; the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control publishes a database that you can peruse to find Russian officials and oligarchs, Iranian hackers and Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam.
Civil liberties groups are challenging the constitutionality of the court order over fears that it could happen again. For now, bitcoin fixes this. But CBDCs? They are problematic. Where the comparison between bitcoin and CBDCs like the eCNY falls short is that bitcoin is decentralized and with no central issuing authority. CBDCs are a digital version of cash issued by a central bank.
Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies use a decentralized ledger but CBDCs are a digital version of cash issued on a digital ledger. CBDC’s digital ledger is similar to a permissioned blockchain, which is likely where the erroneous comparison originates.
One of the key tenets of China’s CBDC is control of the yuan. Control of the supply of the money – WeChat Pay and Alibaba’s digitization of fiat for use on their payment rails annoys the Central Bank – ensures that money can be cancelled.
Should you become too politically noisy, your wallet can be disabled.
During last year’s CoinDesk Consensus conference, Yaya Fanusie, a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, and former CIA counterterrorism financing analyst, highlighted that China’s CBDC efforts were all about control using the example of H&Ms disappearance in-country over its support for a measure to remove Xinjiang Cotton from its supply chain.
“This is really about data. The key thing here is that the central bank is, I think, inserting itself more into the payment architecture,” he said during Consensus 2021. “You’re creating architecture that gives the government a little bit more insight into transactions.”
The truckers’ evasion of government sanctions by using crypto shows that bitcoin has nothing to do with CBDCs. You can’t ‘’cancel’’ a bitcoin transaction like you can with a CBDC, and the only thing you can freeze are the fiat ramps in Canada.
Granted, an American CBDC or one made by a European country would have more privacy safeguards built into it than one from the People’s Bank of China. But Canadian banks are also subject to privacy law and usually require court orders to freeze accounts.
Regardless of your opinion of the truckers, let’s hope Ottawa’s is the exception, not the norm, and that we do not have to prove if a CBDC would be easier to control than bitcoin.
Bitcoin Bounce Fades; Minor Support at $30K-$36K
Bitcoin (BTC) attempted to re-test the $40,000 resistance level on Wednesday, although the price bounce was short-lived. The cryptocurrency could find support at $36,000 on intraday charts, although stronger support is seen at $30,000.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart is neutral, which means the price could remain within the $36,000-$40,000 range into the Asia trading day. On the hourly chart, however, the RSI is declining from overbought levels. That means sellers could remain active over the short term.
Momentum signals are still negative, which is one reason why price bounces have been brief over the past few months. For now, upside appears to be limited beyond $46,000.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia private capital expenditure (Q4)
5 p.m. HKT/SGT (9 a.m. UTC): France consumer confidence (Feb.)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT (1:30 p.m. UTC): Chicago Fed national activity index (Jan.)
11 p.m. HKT/SGT (3 p.m. UTC): U.S. new home sales (Jan./MoM)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin, Crypto Markets Edge Higher, Ukraine Exchange Founder on Russia-Ukraine Conflict, Crypto Tax Talk
""First Mover"" examined the current state of the crypto industry in the Ukraine amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The hosts spoke with Michael Chobanian, founder of Ukraine crypto exchange Kuna. Also, ""First Mover"" covered crypto markets analysis from Marc Lopresti of The Strategic Funds. Will today's rebound last? As part of CoinDesk's Tax Week, David Kemmerer of CoinLedger focuses on Form 1099-B.
China's Zhejiang Province Implements Punitive Electricity Prices for Crypto Mining: Authorities are still working to eliminate the industry months after it was banned.
India's Crypto Advertising Guidelines Are Out: India's advertising watchdog had been framing guidelines for virtual digital assets.
Warner Music Group Adding Play-to-Earn Games With Splinterlands Partnership: The music giant is adding blockchain-based gaming to its repertoire in an effort to expand revenue streams for its roster of musicians.
Canada, Russia and Crypto's Place in the World: World events might set the stage to test crypto’s raison d'etre.
Russia Could Use Cryptocurrency to Blunt the Force of U.S. Sanctions: Russian companies have many cryptocurrency tools at their disposal to evade sanctions, including a so-called digital ruble and ransomware. (The New York Times)
So What If Part of Bitcoin's Code Was State-Funded?: Adam Tooze asked if bitcoin politics is self-deluded. Cypherpunks are just resourceful.
Today's crypto explainer: Can You Still Mine Bitcoin and Other Crypto From Home?
Other voices: How Venture Capitalists Think Crypto Will Reshape Commerce (The New York Times)
""Bitcoin is also still undergoing a slow reversion to the mean after peaking at $68,000 in early November. Essentially, financial gravity is drawing down a dramatic speculative bull run – bitcoin reached $36,000 for the first time ever just over one year ago. Meanwhile, though rising inflation is also a theoretical case for bitcoin, that thesis has yet to prove itself in practice."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""My own view: NFTs are vital building blocks for a new creator-centric digital economy in which our data is no longer mined by internet platforms and in which artists, musicians, photographers, journalists and publishers are able to connect directly with their audiences. But they are only that, building blocks."" (CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey) ... ""Analysts say that the outcry is an indication that Chinese consumers have turned more sensitive to inflation amid the tough economic situation, and that Beijing, which has long been accused of exporting inflation via its massive supply of consumer goods globally, could also face imported inflation."" (South China Morning Post)"
19,57,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/23/terras-luna-jumps-15-as-ust-stablecoin-gets-1b-bitcoin-reserve/,Terra's LUNA Jumps 15% as UST Stablecoin Gets $1B Bitcoin Reserve,LUNA's fortunes are closely tied to UST. The stablecoin's creation is facilitated by burning LUNA.,2022-02-23,"Buoyed by positive news flow, LUNA, the native token of the smart contract blockchain Terra, has become the best-performing major cryptocurrency in the last 24 hours.
The cryptocurrency has risen nearly 15%, topping the $55 mark, outshining crypto market leader bitcoin's near 4% rise by a significant margin, CoinDesk data show. Other notable gainers on the list of coins with at least $1 billion market value are blockchain-like public network Hedera's HBAR token, up 14.5%, and Avalanche's AVAX cryptocurrency, up 12%.
LUNA's leadership perhaps stems from Singapore-based non-profit organization Luna Foundation Guard's (LFG) decision to create a bitcoin-denominated reserve as an additional layer of security for UST – Terra's decentralized stablecoin, whose value is pegged 1:1 to the U.S. dollar.
LFG announced on Tuesday that it had raised $1 billion through private token sales to build the bitcoin reserve and the buyers will lock up the coins for a four-year vesting period. The funding round was led by the likes of Jump Crypto and Three Arrows Capital.
""Raising a BTC reserve is a smart move and may result in lesser fluctuations of UST during future bouts of market volatility,"" Matthew Dibb, chief operating officer and co-founder of Stack Funds, said. ""Ideally, LFG would take steps to keep the reserve 100% on-chain for transparency rather than through centralized means, however, the price action of Luna since the announcement has been largely promising in restoring confidence to the Terra ecosystem.""
Pseudonymous decentralized finance researcher Westie tweeted that the deal is extremely important for Terra's stability, LUNA's value capture.
Increased stability might bring more robust demand for UST, resulting in reduced LUNA supply. LUNA's fortunes are closely tied to UST as the stablecoin's creation is facilitated by burning LUNA. In other words, to mint 1 UST, $1 worth of LUNA must be taken out of circulation.
According to the data tracking website CoinGecko, UST's market capitalization has surged from roughly $300 million to over $12 billion in one year, establishing the dollar-pegged digital asset as the fourth-biggest stablecoin worldwide. Meanwhile, LUNA has chalked up a near sixfold rally in the past 12 months.
Unlike tether and other centralized stablecoins, UST isn't backed by dollars and its peg is maintained by allowing users to alter UST and LUNA supplies.
Here is how it works: Terra's swap function allows users to always swap $1 worth of Luna for 1 UST, and vice versa, according to the official blog. So when UST trades at $0.98, users can buy one UST for $0.98 and then swap the same for $1 of LUNA through Terra's swap function and sell LUNA in the market. The protocol burns one UST and mints LUNA, driving UST's supply lower and putting upward pressure on UST's price.
On the other hand, if UST trades at $1.02, LUNA holders can swap $1 worth of LUNA for 1 UST through the swap function and sell the UST in the market at $1.02, pocketing the difference. In the process, the protocol burns LUNA and mints UST, increasing the stablecoin's supply and putting downward pressure on the peg.
The mechanism is rewarding during bull runs but can be detrimental during a market crash when there is less incentive to mint either of the two coins to keep the peg intact, as explained in a Twitter thread by Westie.
The bitcoin reserve is expected to mitigate that risk to some extent, given the top cryptocurrency is less correlated to Terra's ecosystem and arbitrageurs can swap UST to bitcoin to support UST's peg. In a press release, the Luna Foundation Guard said that moving forward, it may introduce other major non-correlated assets within the market to the reserve.
""The fund will serve as a ""release valve"" for UST redemptions during selloffs [periods of significant UST demand contraction],"" Ilan Solot, a partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email.
""The UST Forex Reserve further strengthens confidence in the peg of the market's leading decentralized stablecoin UST,"" Kanav Kariya, president of Jump Crypto, said in a press release. ""It can be used to help protect the peg of the UST stablecoin in stressful conditions. This is similar to how many central banks hold reserves of foreign currencies to back monetary liabilities and protect against dynamic market conditions.""
Looking ahead, the investor optimism from LFG's reserve announcement, coupled with signs of risk reset in the broader market and the impending launch of Mars Protocol's lockdrop, could keep LUNA better bid.
""Lockdrop allows users to lock UST into Mars' Red Bank in exchange for a distribution of $MARS tokens that are claimable once the protocol launches,"" analytics firm Delphi Digital said in a daily market update. The protocol goes live today, and users will have until Friday to participate in the lockdrop.
""Mars (an advanced money market protocol) is (finally) launching, with $18.5 million of UST locked up for Phase 1 of the token distribution,"" Tagus's Solot said."
20,186,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/23/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-may-not-be-out-of-the-woods-yet-stablecoins-bull-market-continues/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin May Not Be out of the Woods Yet; Stablecoins' Bull Market Continues,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for Feb. 23, 2022.",2022-02-23,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Terra's LUNA leads recovery in the crypto market.
Featured stories: Bitcoin may not be out of the woods yet, derivatives data indicate. Stablecoin supply continues to rise.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show ""First Mover,"" hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time. Today's show will feature guests:
Marc LoPresti, managing director, The Strategic Funds
Michael Chobanian, founder, KUNA Exchange
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin was better bid while heading into the American trading hours, with traditional markets pointing to continued risk reset. At press time, the Aussie dollar and the New Zealand dollar were trading higher against the greenback, and the futures tied to the S&P 500 pointed to a positive open with a 0.4% gain.
""The market appears to be judging the initial salvo of sanctions against Russia for formally recognizing the separatist regions in Ukraine as modest at best and has preceded to take on more risk,"" Bannockburn Global Forex's Marc Chandler said in a blog post.
Terra's LUNA token, Cardano's ADA and Avalanche's AVAX led the recovery in the broader crypto market with double-digit gains on a 24-hour basis. LUNA's strength perhaps stemmed from Singapore-based nonprofit organization Luna Foundation Guard's (LFG) decision to create a bitcoin-denominated reserve as an additional layer of security for UST – Terra's decentralized stablecoin.
LDO, the governance token of liquid staking protocol Lido, dipped to $1.60, trimming Tuesday's 37% spike from $1.36 to $1.87 despite continued inflows into the protocol. ""Yesterday, someone staked 28,000 ETH ($75m) with Lido in a single transaction. That's the 5th largest staking transaction into Lido so far. And today, another 22,500 ETH was staked (7th largest),"" analytics firm Nansen's CEO Alex Svanevik tweeted.
Also read: SAND Token, Below 200-Day MA, Joins Broader Crypto Market in Gloomy Outlook
Terra's LUNA Jumps 15% as UST Stablecoin Gets $1B Bitcoin Reserve
Cardano’s ADA Jumps Amid Recovery in Major Cryptos, Traders Still Remain Cautious
Aventus Taps Scytale Ventures to Boost Polkadot Parachain Plans
‘Web3Memes’ Rugs $235K From Investors Five Hours After Issuance: PeckShield
India's Crypto Advertising Guidelines Are Out
NYSE Parent ICE Takes Stake in tZERO in Potential Move Toward Tokenized Stocks
By Omkar Godbole
While bitcoin is trading higher for the second day, it may be too early to call a bottom as the derivatives market continues to reflect pessimism, and the cryptocurrency is yet to take out a key technical hurdle.
The annualized rolling three-month futures premium continues to trend south in major exchanges, including the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) and Binance, indicating pessimism among both institutional and retail traders.
The CME futures traded at a premium of 2% at press time, while offshore futures traded at a premium of over 3%, according to data provided by Skew.
""The futures basis still experience a steady decline as the bears show no signs of stopping,"" Arcane Research said in a weekly note published Tuesday. Basis refers to the spread between prices in futures and spot markets.
The options market continued to show a put bias with one-, three- and six-month put-call skews returning positive values. A put option gives the purchaser the right but not the obligation to sell the underlying asset at a predetermined price on or before a specific date. A put buyer is implicitly bearish on the market.
From a technical analysis perspective, $44,000 appears to be the resistance to beat for the bitcoin bulls. The cryptocurrency recently failed to establish a foothold above that level, as evident from the long upper wicks attached to the previous two weekly candles.
By Omkar Godbole
The supply of stablecoins or cryptocurrencies with values pegged to external references like the U.S. dollar continues to grow even as the broader crypto market remains depressed.
Coingecko data shows the market capitalization of stablecoins has risen above $180 billion, marking a 32% jump from the tally of $141 billion observed before the crypto market peaked in mid-November.
""Tether (USDT) is the biggest stablecoin with a 44% market share, followed by USD Coin (USDC) with 29%, and Binance USD (BUSD) with 20%. USDC grew extremely fast in 2021 and has continued its strong growth in 2022 with a 20% growth,"" Arcane Research noted. ""Since the summer of 2021, USDT's growth has stagnated, and it has only grown 1% so far in 2022.""
The popular narrative says that the surge in stablecoin supply represents ""dry powder,"" which can be used to snap up cryptocurrencies at cheap prices.
However, that's not necessarily true, and investors could be simply seeking refuge in the stablecoins offering protection from market volatility.
Besides, prospects of higher interest rates in the U.S. could be powering demand for these dollar-pegged currencies."
21,225,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/23/cosmos-builder-tendermint-rebrands-to-ignite-as-team-shifts-focus/,Cosmos Builder Tendermint Rebrands to ‘Ignite’ as Team Shifts Focus,Ignite says it’s now a “product-first” company focused on its Cosmos portfolio manager and blockchain development platform.,2022-02-23,"Tendermint, the company that launched the blockchain-interoperability protocol Cosmos, announced Wednesday it is rebranding to “Ignite.”
Ignite CEO Peng Zhong told CoinDesk that the rebranding doesn't involve major changes to the firm’s road map or leadership. Instead, the brand refresh is meant to symbolize a pivot to “a product-first focus,” with the name “Ignite” bringing to mind “the initiation of change and action.” Tendermint’s prior focus was on developing back-end Cosmos infrastructure.
The refresh comes as ATOM, the native token of the Cosmos blockchain, tops $7 billion in market capitalization. LUNA, the native token of the Cosmos-based Terra blockchain, has climbed to a market cap of $44 billion, suggesting that much of Tendermint’s early goals may have already been accomplished.
Zhong, who has a background in front-end development, frames Ignite’s pivot as a way to play to his team’s design and product chops. The team’s new growth strategy involves optimizing the user experience of Ignite’s portfolio manager, Emeris, to better on-board newer users into Cosmos and build its developer platform, Starport, into a tool that enables non-coders to easily churn out blockchains and decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs).
Ignite launched Cosmos in 2017 to support its vision of a multi-chain future, where many different blockchains coexist to support specific use-cases.
Today, transferring assets between blockchains like Ethereum and Solana can be accomplished through the use of cross-chain “bridges,” but the recent $326 million hack of the Wormhole bridge demonstrates that sending assets between distinct blockchains can pose security risks. Cosmos provides a way for developers to quickly spin up blockchains that can interact with one another without the need for specialized tooling.
Since its launch, the Cosmos network has grown to host 38 different blockchains with a combined market cap of over $122 billion, and Ignite’s tools have been used by major projects like Terra, Binance Smart Chain and Facebook’s ill-fated libra stablecoin.
The Ignite team was responsible for building out the core infrastructure underpinning Cosmos, but the bulk of the project’s development has gradually shifted away from Ignite to Cosmos’s broader development community.
Though Ignite is over eight years old – practically ancient in crypto years – Zhong insists that the company is only at the beginning of its journey.
“We’re going see a future of tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, potentially millions of [blockchains] connected to each other,” Zhong said in an interview. “That sort of growth is really only possible if we help educate, excite and galvanize people to build and be a part of this ecosystem together.”
Despite the messy breakup of Ignite’s founding team in 2020, the Cosmos ecosystem has enjoyed steady growth over the past year, and Ignite hired 90 new employees in 2021, bringing its total headcount to 120."
22,231,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/24/bitcoin-crashes-more-than-7-in-24-hours-as-putin-announces-special-military-operation-in-ukraine/,"Bitcoin Crashes 9% as Missiles Strike Kyiv, Airport Captured","The world's largest cryptocurrency by market value was trading about $34,725 at time of writing after passing $39,000 on Tuesday. Markets in Asia are also down during trading day as the scale of war expands.",2022-02-24,"The price of bitcoin continued to fall as global markets reacted with alarm to the expanding scale of war in Ukraine, with missiles raining down on the capital city in Kyiv and its airport captured by airborne troops.
BTC was down 9% to $34,555 as of the time of this writing, according to CoinGecko data.
Russian President Russian President Vladimir Putin called on Ukrainian forces to surrender, and warned the U.S. and NATO against getting involved.
""Anyone who tries to interfere with us, or even more so to create threats for our country and our people, must know that Russia’s response will be immediate and will lead you to such consequences as you have never before experienced in your history,'' Putin said. “We are ready for any turn of events.”
Read more: Bitcoin Wilts as Russia-Ukraine Tensions Push Gold to 8-Month High
The U.S. and its allies are expected to hit Russia with a broad sanctions package in the coming hours. These sanctions are expected to target Russian banks, Putin's cabinet and his circle of business associates but are not expected to cut Russia off from the global financial system.
Russia's former prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, has previously said that disconnecting Russia from SWIFT would be a declaration of war.
However, presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov has backed down from language calling a potential disconnection a ""serious threat"" in response to a non-binding resolution passed by the European Parliament in April that called on Russia's expulsion from SWIFT should an invasion take place.
Russia has pushed ahead with the development of a central bank digital currency as an apparent contingency should it lose access to SWIFT.
Within Asia, market reaction was cautious but major stock indices on the continent are in the red.
Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index is down 2% on the day, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng is down 3.3%. In Taiwan the TAIEX is down 2.5% while Singapore's Straits Times Index is down 3%.
Dow Jones futures were down 2% in overnight trading, while futures for the S&P 500 were also down 2%.
CNN has reported that Moscow's stock exchange has suspended trading until further notice.
Read more: First Mover Asia: China CBDC Is No Government Version of Bitcoin; Terra's Luna, Other Altcoins Jump"
23,232,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/24/first-mover-asia-india-crypto-firms-regulators-continue-their-regulatory-debate-bitcoin-recovers-from-a-post-invasion-freefall/,"First Mover Asia: India Crypto Firms, Regulators Continue Their Regulatory Debate; Bitcoin Recovers From a Post-Invasion Freefall","Indian crypto industry and government officials have continued to discuss possible changes to regulations announced earlier this month; bitcoin returns to its perch above $38,000.",2022-02-24,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Markets: Bitcoin recovers from its late Wednesday fall, stabilizing above $38,000.
Insights: India passes crypto advertising guidelines and continues its regulatory debate.
Technician's take: There are initial signs of downside exhaustion, although upside appears limited for bitcoin.
Bitcoin (BTC): $38,202 +2.9%
Ether (ETH): $2,586 +0.2%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin's freefall following Russia's invasion of Ukraine halted just below $35,000 during the early hours of Thursday morning. By mid-afternoon, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had regained the perch it has held for much of the week above $38,000.
Trading volume reached its highest volume in a month.
In an email, Oanda Americas Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote that bitcoin was performing like the ""ultimate risky asset, tumbling hard after Russia launched its attack.""
At the time of publication, bitcoin was trading at about $38,200, up about 3% over the previous 24 hours. Ether was roughly flat at about $2,600. Most other altcoins in the top 20 by market cap were in the red, although Terra's LUNA was up over 9%. Solana (SOL) and bitcoin cash (BCH) were also up, albeit less significantly.
Moya said that bitcoin holding ""onto the $30,000 level over the short term would be a good sign, indicating that investors were ""still upbeat about the economic outlook and that risky assets should stabilize once the Russian/Ukraine crisis impact is better understood.""
But he added a more somber note, saying fears of a recession occurring over the next two years ""could trigger many institutional investors to abandon the crypto ship.""
S&P 500: 4,288 +1.5%
DJIA: 33,223 +0.2%
Nasdaq: 13,473 +3.3%
Gold: $1,902 -0.3%
The Ongoing Debate on Regulation in India
As air raid sirens blared in Ukraine’s capital, India was focusing on evacuating its students from Ukraine. But its crypto-sphere was busy with new advertising guidelines, ongoing discussions between government and industry about taxation, news on why India’s crypto regulation may have been delayed and a day-long conference about non-fungible tokens (NFT).
Advertising
India’s advertising guidelines were highly anticipated because the government had sought to stop misleading ads on cryptocurrencies. Now crypto ads will require a disclaimer saying “crypto products and [non-fungible tokens] are unregulated and can be highly risky.”
“We have not said don’t make crypto adverts, just communicate the risks as much as the good about the product,” said Manisha Kapoor, the secretary general of the Advertising Council of India in a radio interview on Thursday.
Regulation
Formal and informal discussions between India’s crypto industry and the government are ongoing. CoinDesk has learned that after exchange companies met senior officials at a hush-hush gathering at the Indian Finance Ministry a few days ago, more discussions are expected later this week.
On Feb. 1, the government announced new crypto taxation proposals that will become formalized in a few weeks, making this period critical for the industry to seek changes. The new rules include a 30% tax on all crypto gains and 1% tax deducted at source on all crypto transactions.
Meanwhile, Michael Patra, the deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India, has said the central bank's views about cryptocurrencies might have delayed the government's proposed legislation on crypto assets, according to the Press Trust of India, the country’s largest news agency.
NFTs
NFTs had their moment in the spotlight on Thursday. The Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), which leads consultations with the government on crypto, held a day-long NFT virtual conference titled “NFT India - A peep into the future of NFT in India.” Indian cricket legend Zaheer Khan and singer Shaan were among the featured speakers. Both stars have dropped NFTs in recent months.
Public interest in the phenomenon has been rising steadily in India as it has elsewhere. The conference addressed this growth and potential opportunities.
Bitcoin Selling Stabilizes; Support at $30K Could Limit Correction
Bitcoin (BTC) extended losses early in the New York trading day and broke below intraday support at $36,500. At press time, the cryptocurrency appears to be stabilizing above $38,000. Resistance is nearby at $40,000, and stronger support is seen at $30,000.
On the daily chart, downside exhaustion signals are starting to appear, similar to what occurred on Jan. 24, which preceded a 30% price jump. This time, however, the relative strength index (RSI) is not deeply oversold, which could delay a potential upswing in price.
Momentum signals remain negative on weekly and monthly charts. That means BTC is vulnerable to further declines. The next two weeks will be critical to determine if buyers have enough conviction to defend the $28,000-$30,000 support zone.
8:45 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:45 a.m. UTC): France consumer price index/European Union norm (Feb. MoM/YoY preliminary)
8:45 a.m. HKT/SGT (12:45 a.m. UTC): France consumer spending (Jan. MoM)
11 p.m. HKT/SGT (3 p.m. UTC): European Commission business climate (Feb.)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Global Markets Roiled as Russia Invades Ukraine, Crypto Market Cap Falls to $1.5T
CoinDesk Russia-based investigative reporter Anna Baydakova joined ""First Mover"" with the latest from on the ground as Russia launched an attack in Ukraine. Michele Schneider of Marketgauge Group shared her analysis as crypto market cap plummeted to $1.5 trillion. Plus, Tax Week coverage continued with tips from Dan Hannum, chief operating officer at ZenLedger.
China's Supreme Court Rules Crypto Transactions Constitute 'Illegal Fundraising': The ruling paves the way for violators to be criminally prosecuted, with a punishment of up to 10 years in prison and fines of up to $79,000.
Crypto Sees $242M in Liquidations Within Hours Amid Russia-Ukraine Crisis: Global markets faltered as Russia started a ""special military operation"" in Ukraine, causing a drastic drop in crypto markets.
Russian Government Introduces Crypto Bill to Parliament Over Central Bank Objections: The Ministry of Finance is pushing forward with cryptocurrency regulation in Russia. Crypto payments will still be prohibited.
A Healthy US Bitcoin Mining Industry Could Generate Significant Tax Revenue: Tax revenue inflows from bitcoin mining companies could represent a meaningful windfall for the United States government. This article is part of CoinDesk’s Tax Week.
Other voices: Minutes after Russia invaded Ukraine, these crypto ‘safe havens’ tanked (Fortune)
Russia could use cryptocurrency to blunt the force of US sanctions (The Economic Times/India)
Today's crypto explainer: GameFi: How to Earn Crypto Playing Games Online
""Reminder: Ethereum is neutral, but I am not. Very upset by Putin's decision to abandon the possibility of a peaceful solution to the dispute with Ukraine and go to war instead. This is a crime against the Ukrainian and Russian people. I want to wish everyone security, although I know that there will be no security. Glory to Ukraine."" (Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin in separate tweets) ... ""A prominent member of the opposition called for an anti-war protest in Moscow. She was arrested as soon as she left her house."" (Julia Ioffe, founder of Puck News, on Twitter) ... “'I don’t understand the motivations, the goals or the possible results. What is happening is very strange.” (The New York Times) ... ""If you want to help Ukraine, this fund is accepting donations in bitcoin: https://savelife.in.ua/en/donate-en/"" (CoinDesk investigative reporter Anna Baydakova) ... We have been transparent with the – we shared declassified intelligence about Russia’s plans and cyber attacks and false pretexts – so that there can be no confusion or cover up. Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. (U.S. President Joe Biden)"
24,233,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/25/market-wrap-cryptos-and-stocks-rise-on-possibility-of-russia-ukraine-talks/,Market Wrap: Cryptos and Stocks Rise on Possibility of Russia-Ukraine Talks,Some traders expect the price bounce to be short-lived amid geopolitical uncertainty.,2022-02-25,"""Vladimir Putin is ready to send to Minsk a Russian delegation,"" Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Friday. Still, the situation was unstable, especially after Russian forces intensified attacks on Ukraine’s capital in recent days. The Russian president later made comments suggesting that he was not serious about participating in talks.
Meanwhile, global markets were in a state of flux as investors tried to make sense of geopolitical moves. The S&P 500 stock index rose over 2%, while Russia's ruble ticked higher, albeit near its weakest level on record.
In crypto markets, bitcoin underperformed most alternative cryptocurrencies (altcoins) on Friday, suggesting a greater appetite for risk among investors. BTC was roughly flat over the past 24 hours, compared with a 5% gain in XRP and a 10% rise in Terra's LUNA token over the same period.
Some investors expect the rebound in crypto prices to continue because of the spike in volatility. Bitcoin's one-week implied volatility jumped to an annualized 75% on Thursday, topping the one-, three- and six-month gauges, similar to what occurred after the May 2021 crash. Further, bitcoin's inverted volatility structure typically precedes price bottoms, according to CoinDesk's Omkar Godbole. Implied volatility refers to investors' expectations for price turbulence over a specific period.
Volatility spikes can be short-lived, however, which could delay a significant upswing in BTC's spot price.
""These spikes in spot price would probably be met with aggressive spot selling, capping the topside,"" QCP Capital, a Singapore-based crypto trading firm, wrote in a Telegram announcement this week.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $3,9093, +2.28%
●Ether (ETH): $2,710, +2.66%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,385, +2.24%
●Gold: $1,892 per troy ounce, −1.73%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 1.99%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Similar to volatility, bitcoin's trading volume across major exchanges reached the highest level since the Dec. 5 price crash, according to CoinDesk data. Typically, high-volume sell-offs indicate capitulation, which could lead to short-term price jumps.
Over the past 24 hours, the ratio of buy volume relative to sell volume was slightly higher, indicating bullish sentiment among traders, according to data compiled by CryptoQuant.
Still, trading volume has trended lower over the past few months.
""Consumer volumes on the exchange remain tepid despite large moves in the crypto space, suggesting reduced risk appetite and light overall positioning in markets,"" David Duong, head of institutional research at Coinbase, wrote in a Friday email to clients.
Coinbase reported its fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday, which beat revenue estimates. However, the exchange warned shareholders about high volatility, and stated that trading volumes could decline during the first quarter of this year.
Terra's LUNA surges: LUNA, a token of the decentralized payments platform, rose as much as 27% in 24 hours to regain $25 billion market capitalization in early European hours on Friday. The price spike was among the biggest for LUNA after months of downward movements. Still, the price is down 30% from December's all-time high of $103. Earlier this week, Singapore-based non-profit organization Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) said it would create a bitcoin-denominated reserve as an additional layer of security for UST, Terra's decentralized stablecoin. Read more here.
Ethereum mining pool Flexpool halts all services to Russia: Flexpool, the world's fifth-largest Ethereum mining pool, became possibly the first of its ilk to cut services to Russian users following the country's invasion of Ukraine. The move was taken to show solidarity with Ukraine. ""We generally do not get involved in politics despite our personal views as a company,"" a Flexpool spokesperson said in a message on Thursday evening on its official Telegram channel. Read more here.
Ethereum gets an upgraded scaling testnet: zkSync, a protocol responsible for implementing Ethereum scaling platforms, announced the test network release of an Ethereum Virtual Machine-compatible Zero-Knowledge rollup (zkEVM) years ahead of schedule. The EVM is the environment in which all Ethereum wallets and contracts live and is responsible for defining the rules of the chain from block to block. Read more from CoinDesk's Edward Oosterbaan here.
Patreon Removes Ukrainian Charity Raising Military Aid Citing Policy Violation
Coinbase Hires Goldman Veteran to Lead Financial Operations
European Parliament Postpones Vote on Crypto Regulations Indefinitely
Associated Press Cancels Sale of Migrant Video NFT After Backlash
Coinbase Remains a Market Leader Despite Near-Term Headwinds, Analysts Say
Digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive, and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
25,234,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/25/short-positions-see-143m-in-liquidations-as-bitcoin-ether-gain-10/,"Short Positions See $143M in Liquidations as Bitcoin, Ether Gain 10%",The crypto market rallied on Friday to almost fully retrace losses from Thursday’s declines.,2022-02-25,"Traders betting against a rise in cryptocurrencies suffered losses of up to $143 million in the past 12 hours as global markets recovered from Thursday's declines.
Bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and other major cryptocurrencies have added close to 10% in 24 hours, almost regaining Wednesday night’s levels. Bitcoin traded near $38,400 at the time of publication, up from Thursday’s low of $34,725.
The rebound, which started in U.S. morning hours on Thursday, caused over $184 million worth of losses due to liquidations on crypto-tracked futures in the past 12 hours. Some 73% of traders were short the market, or betting against a rise, data from analytics tool Coinglass showed.
Over $52 million of shorts were liquidated on crypto exchange OKX, the most among other crypto futures exchanges, with $23 million stemming from bitcoin-tracked futures alone. Binance followed next, with $25 million in losses from liquidated shorts, with FTX at $16 million.
Overall in the past 12 hours, $89 million of bitcoin-tracked futures were liquidated, $53 million in ether-tracked futures and $5.86 million in futures tracking Terra’s LUNA token.
The losses contributed to a 24-hour total liquidations figure of $405 million. Some 83,000 individual trading accounts suffered losses, with the largest liquidation order occurring on BitMEX for a bitcoin futures trade valued at over $7.95 million.
Rebounds in cryptocurrencies followed similar moves in global markets. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index, which tracks companies in Asia, rose almost 1% on Friday after dropping 3.1% on Thursday. Benchmark equity indexes rose across Europe, with the Stoxx Europe 600 index adding more than 1%. In the U.S., the S&P 500 stock index closed 1.5% higher Thursday as the country tightened sanctions against Russia.
Some analysts say demand for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could mount in the coming days because they are seen as liquid instruments.
“Right now, the markets have the highest demand for liquid instruments, making bitcoin slightly less of a risk than altcoins,” Alex Kuptsikevich, a senior financial analyst at FxPro, said in an email to CoinDesk. “It is likely that a further deterioration in the financial situation could benefit the first cryptocurrency as a means of capital savings for investors from Ukraine, Russia and some nearby countries."""
26,74,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/25/terras-luna-surges-27-to-regain-25b-market-capitalization/,Terra’s LUNA Surges 27% to Regain $25B Market Capitalization,Tokens of the decentralized payments platform posted the biggest gains amid a broader recovery in major cryptocurrencies.,2022-02-25,"Terra’s LUNA tokens surged 27% in 24 hours to regain a $25 billion market capitalization in early European hours on Friday.
The move erased almost all losses from Thursday, when crypto and global markets slid following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
LUNA traded at $66 at the time of writing, up from $50 on Thursday night, with nearly $3.8 billion worth of the tokens traded on various crypto exchanges in the past 24 hours. The 25% spike in price was among the biggest for LUNA in recent times after months of downward movements. Still, the price is down 35% from December's lifetime high of $103.
Price chart analysis suggests LUNA could continue a run to $69 before encountering resistance. Readings on the relative strength index (RSI) gauge reached 72, suggesting a cooldown in prices as the asset enters “overbrought” levels.
RSI is a tool that calculates the magnitude of price movements to indicate a change in trend. Readings above 70 indicate an asset is ""overbrought"" and could decline, while values under 30 suggest an asset is “oversold” and could see upward movement.
LUNA was among the largest crypto market gainers in the past two years as demand for decentralized financial services, which rely on smart contracts instead of third parties, picked up among retail traders. Investors have captured some 54,400% in gains from lows of $0.121798 on Mar 18, 2020, to the current level, data from tracking tool CoinGecko shows.
Earlier this week, Singapore-based non-profit organization Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) said it would create a bitcoin-denominated reserve as an additional layer of security for UST – Terra's decentralized stablecoin, whose value is pegged 1:1 to the U.S. dollar.
LFG said Tuesday it had raised $1 billion through private token sales to build the reserve and the buyers will lock up the coins for four years. The funding round was led by influential crypto investors Jump Crypto, DeFiance Capital and Three Arrows Capital, causing a jump in LUNA prices at the time.
""This is a significant step towards risk minimization and strengthening the confidence of $UST,"" Yeou Jie, portfolio growth lead at DeFiance, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat. ""The demand of $UST is also increasing steadily and the market cap is climbing.""
Other major cryptocurrencies have gained almost 10% on average in the past 24 hours. Bitcoin (BTC) regained the crucial $38,000 level and ether (ETH) rose to as much as $2,690 before a $40 slide in early European hours.
UPDATE (Feb. 25, 09:51 UTC): Changes Yeou Jie's job title in penultimate paragraph."
27,380,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/02/27/first-mover-asia-bitmex-saga-concludes-but-well-never-know-if-doj-overreached-cryptos-tumble-as-russia-bores-into-ukraine/,"First Mover Asia: BitMEX Saga Concludes, but We'll Never Know if DOJ Overreached; Cryptos Tumble as Russia Bores Into Ukraine","The guilty plea of the founders of the crypto trading platform with main offices in Hong Kong and Singapore avoided a trial; bitcoin dropped below $37,500 on Sunday after Russian President Vladimir Putin placed his nuclear forces on alert.",2022-02-27,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Weekend Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos fell significantly as the war in Ukraine escalated.
Technician's take: Investors are likely to remain active trading between $30,000 and $46,000.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis.
Bitcoin (BTC): $37,721 -3.2%
Ether (ETH): $2,628 -5.1%
After largely holding their own through the early part of the weekend, bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies plummeted on Sunday as the war in Ukraine intensified.
Satellite images showed columns of Russian troops heading toward the Ukraine capital, Kyiv. On Sunday, Russian President Vladimir Putin placed his nuclear forces on alert in response to sanctions and other measures that the U.S. and its Western European allies have taken to punish Russia and support Ukraine. Later in the day, Ukraine announced it had agreed to hold peace talks with Russia to end the invasion.
At the time of publication, bitcoin was trading under $37,800, down over 3%. Ether was changing hands at about $2,600, down over 5%. The second largest crypto by market cap started the weekend at over $2,700. Almost all major altcoins had dropped significantly. Terra's luna and avalanche were off about 7% and 8.5%, respectively.
Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull Capital, said that bitcoin had returned to the same $37,000 support line it faced last Monday. But he added that only ""a broader sell-off on risk-on assets,"" stemming from larger economic pressures could keep bitcoin under $37,000 or force it much lower in the days ahead.
DiPasquale said that bitcoin's pricing late Sunday was important for ""setting the tone ahead."" ""Because crypto trades 24/7, it is sometimes seen as an early indicator where equities markets may go on Monday's opening.""
If bitcoin dips, he said that the next support line would appear at $35,000. But he also struck an optimistic note, saying that his firm has been ""hearing that $35K has been a major buy-in point for larger buyers, including corporate treasuries this year.""
Top Gainers
Top Losers
S&P 500: 4,384 +2.2%
DJIA: 34,058 +2.5%
Nasdaq: 13,694 +1.6%
Gold: $1,889 -0.7%
US Case Against BitMEX, Arthur Hayes Was International Overreach, but Now Its Merits Won’t Be Tested in Court
As the week ended in Asia, the long-running saga over BitMEX seemed to be concluding.
Late Thursday U.S. time, BitMEX founders Arthur Hayes and Benjamin Delo pleaded guilty to violating the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA).
“As a result of its willful failure to implement [anti-money laundering] and [know-your-customer] programs, BitMEX was in effect a money laundering platform. For example, in May 2018, Hayes was notified of allegations that BitMEX was being used to launder the proceeds of a cryptocurrency hack,” the U.S. Department of Justice said in a press release Thursday.
The plea followed a $100 million settlement in August to resolve charges against the company (entirely separate from those against its executives) as the exchange’s new leadership – the original founders Arthur Hayes, Ben Delo, Samuel Reed and Gregory Dwyer had left the company – wanted to signal that this was a new chapter.
Remember: BitMEX is incorporated in the Seychelles, with its main offices in Hong Kong and Singapore. Hayes and Delo resided offshore.
But these settlements mean the prosecution’s case against BitMEX, and the separate one against Hayes and Delo, will never be tested in court. (Reed and Dwyer haven’t signaled their intent to settle.) Certainly, those accused of a crime have the right to enter a plea deal to settle their case; court proceedings are drawn out, stressful affairs. However, this agreement still means that the ambiguity around the case will endure and we’ll never know the strength of the DOJ’s argument.
Remember, BitMEX has never accepted fiat currency, unlike other exchanges. It only traded in bitcoin (BTC) until recently. Only in November it added tether (USDT) to the list of accepted crypto.
So if an institution doesn’t actually accept fiat currency or provide an off-ramp for it, can it be charged under the Bank Secrecy Act?
The case introduced a new area of jurisprudence for the BSA, Ross Feingold, a Taipei-based lawyer and political risk consultant, said during the case’s early days.
Feingold, who had formerly served as in-house counsel for Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan in Hong Kong, highlighted that this would have been a precedent-setting case for the BSA as it would have been one of the first uses of the Secrecy Act against a non-bank financial institution.
Prior to BitMEX, the Secrecy Act was used in 2018 against a firm called Central States Capital Markets, which had similar gaps in its KYC/AML regime like BitMEX. But that case ended with a deferred prosecution agreement where CSCM agreed to change its procedures in exchange for no charges.
Braden Perry, a former Commodity Futures Trading Commission enforcement attorney and now a partner at Kennyhertz Perry, said at the time that this was ""dangerous territory for the CFTC.”
“The CFTC’s increasingly expanded view of their jurisdiction will likely be challenged, especially against offshore exchanges and participants that have limited ties to the United States,” he said at the time.
But all of this was never tested in court. Could the Bank Secrecy Act apply when the institution in question isn’t a bank and didn’t even deal with currency? Can the CFTC regulate a market that is based offshore and doesn’t specifically target U.S. residents? (While there were concerns over BitMEX’s leaky IP blocking regime, it also didn’t advertise.)
We won’t know how the court would rule as the case against BitMEX and the separate ones with Hayes and Delo have been settled. The prosecution’s evidence won’t be tested in the adversarial nature of a court proceeding. Some of these questions might be answered in the upcoming case involving the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Terraform Labs.
Terraform Labs is claiming the agency did not have jurisdiction over CEO Do Kwon when he was served with a subpoena during a conference in New York because neither the company nor Kwon are U.S. residents. Terraform Labs’ lawyers are arguing that just because U.S. residents accessed the company’s services doesn’t mean there was “purposeful availment.” The lawyers cited prior case law (Royalty Network Inc. v. Dishant.com) that to claim that because a website is available in a market doesn’t mean that it’s a “purposeful attempt to take advantage of the … market.”
That Hayes, et al. didn’t have their day in court is a shame. Under intense scrutiny, the government’s case against them might not have been as strong as it seemed.
Yes, Hayes taunted U.S. authorities: The initial indictment quoted comments he made at the Tangle in Taipei saying that Seychellian authorities could be “bribed with coconuts” and equated dealing with New York regulators to forced sodomy.
Eventually, this part of the submission was blocked by a judge and rightfully so as anyone in the audience could see it was a joke directed towards New York University professor Nouriel Roubini, his cantankerous debate opponent onstage.
But the fact this comment was highlighted by prosecutors shows that it might be Hayes’ ego that bothered them. Having an ego is certainly no crime.
Bitcoin (BTC) experienced a sharp reversal on Thursday, and extended gains into Friday. For now, selling pressure has faded, which means buyers could remain active between the $30,000 and $46,000 range.
BTC returned above $38,000 and is up 6% over the past 24 hours. On Friday, the cryptocurrency was down 2% over the previous week, which meant the recent bounce had not shifted the short-term downtrend. On Sunday, bitcoin had dropped below $37,500 as the war in Ukraine intensified.
Thursday’s price action triggered initial downside exhaustion signals, per the DeMARK indicators, similar to what occurred on Jan. 24, which preceded a 30% upswing in price. Still, in bear markets, counter-trend signals can be brief or invalid depending on the status of long-term momentum readings. Currently, momentum remains negative on the weekly and monthly charts.
Immediate resistance is seen at $40,000, which could stall the current price bounce. There is stronger resistance at $46,700, which capped upside moves earlier this month.
2:30 p.m. HKT/SGT: U.S. goods trade balance (Jan. preliminary)
2:30 p.m. HKT/SGT: U.S. wholesale inventories (Jan. preliminary)
3:45 p.m. HKT/SGT: U.S. Chicago purchasing managers index (Feb.)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Cryptocurrency Is an Unlikely Workaround for US Sanctions Against Russia, Crypto Markets Rebound After Biden Speech
""First Mover"" hosts spoke with cryptocurrency strategist and former CIA analyst Yaya Jata Fanusie for his insights into the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the role of crypto in this geopolitical crisis. Former CFTC Chairman Chris Giancarlo weighed in on the crypto regulation turf war in the U.S. Strips Finance founder and CEO Ming Wu provided his market analysis as cryptocurrencies are seeing a strong rebound following President Joe Biden's speech Thursday. Plus, ""First Mover"" discussed highlights from CoinDesk Tax Week's series of reports.
EU 'Commits' to Cutting Russian Banks Off From SWIFT Over Ukraine Invasion: More member nations are showing support for imposing restrictions on Russia's access to the international banking system.
Ukrainian Government Receives $5M in Crypto Donations After Russian Invasion: The Ethereum wallet listed by the government has received almost $5 million in crypto so far.
New DAO Raises $3 Million in ETH for Ukrainian Army: The Russian art collective Pussy Riot is helping to coordinate UkraineDAO.
ECB Wants Quick Action on Crypto Regulation Following Russian Sanctions: The European parliament earlier Friday postponed a vote on a regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies.
Patreon Removes Ukrainian Charity Raising Military Aid Citing Policy Violation: The non-profit is also raising funds in bitcoin but Patreon was the most convenient way for foreigners to donate to the fund, according to the charity's director.
European Parliament Postpones Vote on Crypto Regulations Indefinitely: A leaked draft has drawn criticism for including a provision that sought to ban the use of cryptocurrencies that rely on proof-of-work.
Apolitical Crypto Networks in Times of Sanction and War: If blackballed from the global financial system, will Russia turn to bitcoin?
Today's crypto explainer: What Is a Satoshi? Understanding the Smallest Unit of Bitcoin
Other voices: In the world’s first crypto war, uncertainty about who will benefit (Washington Post)
All these incidents demonstrate that it’s extremely difficult, if not impossible, to escape someone who’s determined to track you down. Know-your-customer (KYC) rules, multiple passwords and data-tracking systems, with countless stores of information about our on- and offline lives held on corporate-owned servers around the world, all militate against our online privacy. (CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey) ... ""Getting some confirmations from a couple sources that it's legit. Deleting my warning for now. But continue to be vigilant, and always be slow and careful when sending irreversible crypto transactions."" (Vitalik Buterin on Twitter) ... ""Putin's war on #Ukraine has already created 150,000 refugees, and 1000+ people have been killed or injured."" (Human Rights Foundation)"
28,377,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/01/one-theta-trader-lost-11m-to-liquidations-as-prices-jumped-18/,One THETA Trader Lost $11M to Liquidations as Prices Jumped 18%,A trader of futures tracking the Theta Network token took one of the largest losses in crypto as the market recovered.,2022-03-01,"A lone trader lost more than $11 million on a single futures trade involving Theta Networks’ THETA token as the price jumped 18% in 24 hours.
The trade, among the largest for mid-cap cryptos in recent months, occurred on crypto exchange Binance and formed the largest part of the $11.67 million in liquidations on THETA futures. Usually, the largest liquidations occur on futures tracking bitcoin (BTC) or ether (ETH), the two most-traded cryptocurrencies.
Liquidations occur when a trader has insufficient funds to fill a margin call – a demand for extra collateral by the exchange to keep the trading position funded. They’re especially common in high-risk trading due to the volatility of assets.
Of the $11.67 million in liquidation losses to THETA futures traders, one person was short $11.08 million of THETA, meaning that person was betting the token's price would drop, data from analytics service Coinglass show. The position was liquidated as prices jumped 18% from Monday’s lows of $2.73.
Binance, the largest crypto exchange, alone saw $11.54 million worth of shorts placed on THETA futures. Rival exchange OKX had $53,000 worth.
THETA hit resistance near the $3.50 level and tumbled 30 cents at the time of writing. It could fall to the $2.90 level if the selling pressure continues.
The THETA token forms the backbone of decentralized video-streaming service Theta Network and can be staked by those wishing to become “Validator” or “Guardian” nodes to earn returns. THETA allows nodes to validate transactions, produce blocks, vote on changes to the network and earn TFUEL as a reward, according to the technical documents.
THETA rose to $3.39 in early Asian hours amid a broader revival in the crypto market. Bitcoin rallied through $44,000, while ETH, Terra’s LUNA, and other major cryptocurrencies have all posted gains in excess of 10% in the past 24 hours.
At the time of writing, THETA is the 45th-largest cryptocurrency and has a market capitalization of $3.2 billion.
UPDATE (March 1 21:22 UTC): Corrects the trading symbol for ether to bitcoin."
29,67,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/01/terras-luna-jumps-24-as-bitcoin-breaks-44k/,Terra’s LUNA Jumps 24% as Bitcoin Breaks $44K,Tokens of the decentralized money market surged the most amid a broader run in the crypto market.,2022-03-01,"Terra’s LUNA token jumped 24% in the past 24 hours to lead gains among major cryptocurrencies in a broader market recovery.
LUNA reached weekly highs of $95.36 in early Asian hours before traders took profits and sent prices down by some $6. At the time of writing, the token was trading at $88, up from $50 last Thursday night, with nearly $3.9 billion worth of the tokens traded on various crypto exchanges in the past 24 hours.
The move came days after a similar 25% spike in the token on Friday. However, prices are down 13% from December's lifetime high of $103.
RSI, or relative strength index, readings hovered at the 71 level at the time of writing, suggesting further downside to the $86 level, where local support exists. RSI is a price-chart tool that calculates the magnitude of price changes. Readings above 70 show an asset is “overbought” and could see a correction, while under 30 suggest an asset is “oversold” and could see a price increase.
Some crypto market observers said LUNA’s strong fundamentals provide some of the buying pressure.
“LUNA outpacing its peers in the market today should not come as a shock,” said Alexander Mamasidikov, co-founder of mobile digital bank MinePlex, in an email to CoinDesk. “The coin is backed by a blockchain protocol that is inherently innovative and has the potential for massive utility and scalability, a feature both retail and institutional investors realize.”
Bitcoin (BTC) traded above $44,000 after falling to as low as $34,550 last week. Analysts suggested the recovery came as Russia’s war against Ukraine bolstered retail demand for cryptocurrencies.
Cryptocurrencies regained the $2 trillion market capitalization level on Thursday after gaining 11% in the market recovery, data from CoinGecko showed. The markets have added over $500 billion since last week’s lows of $1.5 trillion.
UPDATE (Mar. 1, 06:24 UTC): Corrects first paragraph to say 24% from 25%."
30,230,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/02/first-mover-americas-record-low-bitcoin-futures-premium-on-binance-signals-capitulation/,"First Mover Americas: Record Low Bitcoin Futures Premium on Binance Signals Capitulation, BITO Sees Inflows","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for March 2, 2022.",2022-03-02,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin stuck at 100-day moving average as European stocks and euro slide.
Featured stories: Record low bitcoin (BTC) futures premium on Binance indicates capitulation and market bottom. ProShares bitcoin futures ETF registers inflows.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show ""First Mover,"" hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9 a.m. U.S. Eastern time. Today's show will feature guests:
Tanvi Ratna, founder, Policy 4.0
Kevin Owocki, founder, Gitcoin
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin failed to beat a key price-resistance level early Wednesday amid mixed action in traditional markets and reports of the next round of peace talks between Ukraine and Russia.
The biggest cryptocurrency by market value reached daily highs at the descending 100-day moving average (MA) hurdle at $45,000 before retreating to $44,000, according to chart platform TradingView. The cryptocurrency was still up 28% from last Thursday's one-month lows.
The total crypto market capitalization rose past $2 trillion, as alternative cryptocurrencies charted a more significant recovery rally alongside bitcoin's bounce. Programmable blockchain Terra's LUNA token rose to a two-month high of $96, taking the week-on-week gain to 92%.
The crypto recovery looked set to continue on increased demand from Russia and Ukraine and as inflation expectations surged and traditional markets priced out prospects of aggressive monetary tightening by central banks.
""Bitcoin is on a steady footing here, but we may meet increased resistance around $46,000 handle,"" Matthew Dibb, COO and co-founder of Stack Funds, said. ""Recent moves have shown evidence of the correlation between BTC and equities dropping; however, this is a crucial month for economic data that may hold some surprises.""
""We believe this may sustain in the near term given that there are new fund inflows for the month that must be allocated,"" Dibb added.
While futures tied to the S&P 500 stock index rose, European stocks dipped and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate slipped to its lowest since March 2020. Markets likely saw the European economy taking a relatively bigger hit from the Ukraine-Russia war and the West's punitive sanctions on Moscow.
Gold took a bull breather while oil, industrial metals and grains were bid again, hinting at hotter inflation in coming months. Even so, money markets continued to scale back bets of monetary policy tightening by the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank.
Also read: S&P 500 Conflict History Points to Short-Term Bitcoin Bounce, Sell-Off in H2: QCP
EU Excludes 7 Russian Banks from SWIFT
Ukraine Receives Over $7M in Crypto Donations After Airdrop Announcement
UK Regulator Bans Floki Inu Ads as 'Irresponsible'
Crypto Market Cap Pushes Past $2T as Major Cryptos Surge
Terra’s LUNA Passes Ether to Become Second-Largest Staked Asset
Ukraine Says 'Airdrop Confirmed’ After Receiving $33M Crypto Donations
Vote to Remove Brantly Millegan From ENS Foundation Likely to Fail
Putin Is Temporarily Banning Foreigners From Pulling Money Out of Russia
CryptoPunk NFT Is Latest Donation to Ukraine’s $33M Campaign
By Omkar Godbole
The annualized rolling three-month premium in bitcoin futures listed on crypto exchange Binance fell to record lows early this week, hinting at capitulation and a market bottom.
""Binance's 24-hour average basis [spread between futures and spot prices] reached a new all-time low on Monday of 1.17%, below the bottom 1.18% seen on July 21, 2021. This points towards a very pessimistic sentiment among leveraged traders and, yes – a sign of capitulation,"" Vetle Lunde, market analyst at Arcane Research, told CoinDesk in a Twitter chat.
Offshore crypto trading platforms like Binance and Bybit offer relatively high leverage than the regulated Chicago Mercantile Exchange and are considered a proxy for retail leverage traders. While Binance offers 20x leverage, the CME offers 2-3x with much stricter margin requirements.
Capitulation refers to a situation when traders liquidate their loss-making positions during extended market declines in fear of incurring deeper drawdowns. It's a sign of extreme pessimism and panic selling typically seen at the end of bear markets.
So, the record low Binance premium perhaps indicates that bitcoin's bear run, which began at dizzy heights of $69,000 in mid-November, has run its course.
Supporting that conclusion is the relative optimism on Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which represents institutions and large traders.
The CME three-month rolling premium has stabilized in the 2% to 3% range since hitting lows under 1% in January, data provided by crypto derivatives research firm Skew show. Last week, the CME futures traded at a higher premium than those listed on Binance – the first such instance since March 2020.
""The fact that CME's basis bottom coincided with BTC's January bottom and has since grown suggests that smart money has a more positive outlook on the market onwards, compared to its peers,"" Lunde noted.
Inflows into BITO
The relatively higher premium on the CME at least, in part, stems from increased inflows into ProShares' bitcoin futures-based exchange-traded fund (ETF).
The fund's total assets under management (AUM) rose from roughly 24,500 BTC to 27,500 BTC in the four weeks to mid-February before recently falling to 27,000 BTC, shown by Arcane Research. The ProShares bitcoin ETF was launched in October on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker BITO.
""Strong inflows to the BITO ETF contribute to CME's stable and subtle growing basis,"" Lunde said.
The above chart shows the fund witnessed outflows early this year as bitcoin cratered on fears of faster U.S. Federal Reserve rate hikes. However, the trend has shifted to inflows since mid-January.
As of Feb. 24, ProShares' AUM was up 74% on a year-to-date basis while the AUM of ARK, according to data tweeted by Bloomberg's Eric Balchunas.
Futures-based ETFs are exposed to contango bleed and tend to underperform the underlying asset."
31,73,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/02/terras-luna-passes-ether-to-become-second-largest-staked-asset/,Terra’s LUNA Passes Ether to Become Second-Largest Staked Asset,Some $30 billion worth of the tokens are staked by users to earn yields of just under 7%.,2022-03-02,"A price surge in Terra’s LUNA token over the past week has made it the second-largest staked asset among all major cryptocurrencies in terms of total value staked, according to a data source. LUNA surpassed ether, which has just over $28 billion in staked value at the time of writing.
Data from Staking Rewards shows over $30 billion worth of LUNA is now staked directly on various platforms, representing a majority of the token’s $34 billion market capitalization.
Participants are earning over 6.98% in annual yields. Some 41% of all eligible tokens are staked, the data shows.
Cross-chain protocol Orion.money holds over $2 billion in staked LUNA, the largest among all staking applications that support LUNA. Its 43,000 stakers generate nearly 7% in yields.
Prices of LUNA rose nearly 70% in the past week amid strong fundamentals and positive sentiment among the community for Terra.
LUNA is one of the two tokens issued by Terra, a blockchain protocol that uses dollar-pegged stablecoin UST to build a global payments system. LUNA was among the best performing cryptocurrencies in the past two years with a nearly 76,130% rise since lows of $0.12 on Mar 18, 2020.
Staking in crypto refers to a process where token holders deposit – or lock away – a number of tokens to become active participants in running the network in return for rewards. The rewards are referred to as “yields” and are usually higher than those offered by traditional institutions on deposits.
Solana’s SOL tokens remain the most staked asset with over $40 billion worth of SOL staked on various platforms. Stakers earn some 5.86% in yields annually.
However, ether retains its crown in terms of total value locked on applications built on its blockchain. Over $118 billion is locked on Ethereum-based apps, compared with $23 billion on Terra-based apps and $7 billion on Solana-based apps, data from DeFiLlama shows."
32,287,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/03/anchor-protocols-anc-rallies-23-heres-why/,Anchor Protocol’s ANC Rallies 23% – Here’s Why,Anchor is a decentralized money market built on the Terra blockchain that offers UST depositors a 20% annual percentage yield.,2022-03-03,"Anchor Protocol’s governance token, ANC, has gained 23% over the past 24 hours and was trading at $4.95 at press time.
Henrik Andersson, co-founder of Australia-based crypto-asset investment firm Apollo Capital, said that the rally is due to a combination of ANC offering a high annual percentage yield (APY) and talks of new tokenomics.
“Anchor offers among the highest APY for crypto stablecoins which has driven demand of UST,” said Andersson. “At the same time stablecoin yield on aggregator platforms like Yearn and Convex has fallen dramatically to low single digit to low double digits.”
This, in combination with talks of new tokenomics for ANC, might be the reason for the rally, said Andersson.
Anchor is a decentralized money market built on the Terra blockchain that offers UST (Terra’s U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin) depositors a 20% APY. ANC, Anchor’s inflationary protocol token, offers holders governance rights as well as a percentage of protocol earnings.
Anchor Protocol announced in a Feb. 17 blog post a proposal introducing vote-escrowed ANC (veANC) instead of ANC staking. Vote escrow, which was pioneered by curve.finance, is a mechanism of locking tokens for a preset time period. The longer users elect to lock up tokens, the more weight the tokens might get for governance voting and earning staking rewards.
“ANC would be locked up for up to four years in a contract to mint veANC,” wrote Anchor in the blog post.
“VeANC would mean that ANC would need to be locked in order to achieve the highest possible yield on UST – this could further drive demand for the ANC token,” said Andersson.
Meanwhile, the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) announced at the end of February that it closed a $1 billion private token sale to establish a decentralized UST Forex Reserve denominated in bitcoin.
“This makes TerraUSD the only stablecoin (with reserve backing) that is fully decentralized,” said Shawn Dexter, DeFi analyst at Quantum Economics, in a telegram chat with CoinDesk. This is because the coin is not issued by a central party, nor are the reserves controlled by a central party (unlike USDT or USDC, for example).
“This was an inflection point for Luna and instantly made most projects on the ecosystem (including Anchor) that much more attractive,” said Dexter.
“The confidence in Anchor Protocol and its prospects for long-term success is dependent on the success and stability of the Terra ecosystem,” added Dexter.
The $1 billion raise along with the fact the reserves are in bitcoin speaks to the long-term prospects of the ecosystem seeing continued development and improvements, according to Dexter. “UST being backed by BTC reserves reduces the fragility of their entire ecosystem during times of market stress and contraction,” he said.
Terra’s LUNA token is up 43% in the last 7 days, trading at around $93.
“Many market participants perceive projects on the Terra ecosystem as a higher-beta trade on Luna, and this could be why we are seeing the stronger projects (on Terra) see their price rally since the announcement,” said Dexter."
33,240,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/07/bitcoin-creeps-toward-40k-as-surging-oil-prices-create-bear-market-worry/,Bitcoin Creeps Toward $40K as Surging Oil Prices Create Bear Market Worry,The largest cryptocurrency's upward move came as stocks fell due to concerns over mounting inflationary pressures.,2022-03-07,"Bitcoin (BTC) rose toward the key psychological threshold of $40,000, three days after losing the foothold, even as stocks slipped due to concerns over surging oil prices.
As of press time the largest cryptocurrency by market value was changing hands just above $39,000, after dipping below $38,000 earlier in the session.
Brent crude jumped as high as $139 a barrel on Monday, a 14-year high – not too far away from the record $147 reached in 2008.
Europe’s Stoxx 600 and Asia Dow dropped more than 3%, while U.S. S&P 500 futures traded 1.4% lower. In India, the rupee lost 1.1% to trade at a record 76.98 per dollar. Germany’s benchmark DAX Index lost 4% on Monday, entering the dreaded “bear market” territory – a term for when assets lose more than 20% of their value over two months.
The fear in traditional markets is that soaring oil prices might put more upward pressure on inflation, already running at its fastest in four decades, adding to economic challenges that include Russia's invasion of Ukraine and supply-chain bottlenecks.
During Asia morning hours, losses on most major cryptocurrencies ranged from 5% to over 8% before bitcoin’s run caused a slight recovery. Binance’s BNB, Terra’s LUNA and XRP regained losses to trade flat in the past 24 hours, while Solana’s SOL and Cardano’s ADA lost over 3%.
The crypto fear and greed index – which tracks market sentiment – reached readings of 23, implying a state of “extreme fear” in the market. Such values are a sign that investors are too worried and the market could see a recovery, compared to readings above 60 while signal greed in the market and the chance of a due correction.
Some analysts say the crypto market’s correlation to broader traditional finance has weakened its narrative as an inflation hedge. On the other hand, bitcoin has reacted negatively to the Federal Reserve's efforts to tamp down the upward pressure on consumer prices.
“Cryptocurrencies do not remain aloof from politics, and they are weakly confirming the role of an alternative to the banking system now,” shared Alex Kuptsikevich, financial analyst at FxPro, in an email to CoinDesk. “With a sharp decline over the weekend, bitcoin wiped out the initial gains, gave away the positions to bears after the third straight week of gains.”
Others say a global recession could materialize if the Fed pushes forward aggressively to boost interest rates.
“Many predict a global recession is on the horizon if the Federal Reserve decides to hike rates aggressively starting from March 16,” wrote Marcus Sotiriou, an analyst at the crypto broker GlobalBlock, in an email.
Sotiriou, however, is among traders who remain bullish on the long-term promise of cryptocurrencies.
“I think that the introduction of regulatory clarity in the U.S., even if it hinders innovation at first, will ignite the next wave of money to enter the crypto markets,” Sotiriou stated. “This is how a $100,000-$500,000 price for bitcoin is achievable over the next five years.”"
34,242,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/08/bitcoin-stays-above-38k-while-nickel-surges-to-101k-in-surprise-run/,Bitcoin Stays Above $38K While Nickel Surges to $101K in Surprise Run,Crypto markets were muted Tuesday as some other sectors showed explosive growth amid conflict in eastern Europe.,2022-03-08,"Bitcoin (BTC) and other major cryptocurrencies showed muted gains on Tuesday as the European Union (EU) said it will issue bonds due to the ill effects of the war in Ukraine and sanctions imposed on Russia.
The proposal could be ready next week to finance EU members, with the proceeds said to be earmarked to finance spending on energy and defense.
Reports of the proposal pushed European equities higher. Germany’s DAX index rose 0.7% and the Stoxx Europe 600 index added 0.5%. S&P 500 futures opened 0.38% higher, while futures on silver continued Monday’s run to add 2.68%.
Bitcoin held above the $38,000 for a second day, remaining 12% below the levels it reached a week earlier. Ether lost 1.3% over the past 24 hours, while growth in other majors ranged to 3.1% on Binance Chain’s BNB from 1% on Terra’s LUNA. Avalanche’s AVAX and XRP saw 1% losses in the same time frame.
On Monday, Brent crude pushed past $122 a barrel on concern Russian sanctions would limit oil imports. Russia is a leading producer, and has said it will cut off natural gas supply to Germany should the country comply with sanctions imposed by other western states. The EU gets about 40% of its gas and 30% of its oil from Russia, according to the BBC.
The London Metal Exchange suspended trading in nickel after a purported short squeeze drove prices of the metal to a record $101,000 in early Asian hours.
“Those that had bet against the metal’s rise in value have now been forced to buy at a much higher price, creating a short squeeze,” explained Susannah Streeter, an investment analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, in an email to CoinDesk. “It’s likely a big margin call prompted the suspension of trading, with sharp gains forcing speculators to scramble for additional capital to put into accounts to cover the shortfall.”
Nickel is a key component in electric vehicle batteries, a sector that has grown alongside cryptocurrencies in the past few years.
Tuesday’s gains in crypto added 1.1% to the total market capitalization. The Bitcoin Dominance Index rose to 42.4%. The Fear and Greed Cryptocurrency Index – a sentiment tracker – lost 2 points to 21 in a day and remains in a state of “extreme fear,” suggesting an increase in crypto prices could be expected in the coming weeks.
Bitcoin started the week with a decline alongside other risky assets on reports of intensified hostilities in Ukraine. Monday evening, however, saw it recover from losses.
Data on analytics tool Santiment showed large investors were piling up Tether’s USDT tokens during the weekend’s decline of bitcoin. Large USDT reserves could signal buyers are readying to purchase bitcoin, which may become underpriced after last week’s drop, analysts from FxPro told CoinDesk in an email.
Not everyone is convinced of a move upward, however.
""We are looking at a highly volatile market at the moment due to the geopolitical situation we are witnessing in Europe,” shared James Wo, founder of crypto fund DFG, in a Telegram message. “We expect that markets will continue with rapid and deep upside/downside movements, similar to the risk assets in traditional finance, until there are signals of a reestablishment of a new status quo.”"
35,342,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/10/icons-icx-rockets-70-as-crypto-friendly-candidate-wins-south-korean-presidential-election/,Icon’s ICX Rockets 70% as Crypto-Friendly Candidate Wins South Korean Presidential Election,The South Korean project recorded an unusual bounce on Thursday after Yoon Suk-yeol was elected president.,2022-03-10,"Tokens of prominent South Korean project Icon surged as much as 70% in the past 24 hours after the election of Yoon Suk-yeol as the country's president.
The project's ICX token jumped from a low of $0.61 on Wednesday to over $1.04 on Thursday morning before retracing some of the gain. The price is still some 92% below the 2018 peak of $13.
Price charts suggest the token may drop to a support level at $0.70 if current buying pressure is not sustained.
ICX is a prominent project whose protocol allows separate blockchains to exchange data with each other. It was one of the top performers in the initial coin offering frenzy of 2017 before losing favor among investors in the years afterward.
South Korean exchange UpBit continues to see tens of millions worth of ICX traded daily, data show. Wednesday, however, saw over $410 million in volume on the ICX/Korean won trade pair. UpBit posted trading volumes of over $4 billion in total, more than twice the $1.8 billion traded on Sunday.
Other projects with Korean ties saw similar price jumps. Singapore-based Terra, started life in South Korea, saw prices of its LUNA tokens cross an all-time high of $103 in early Asian hours.
Gains in LUNA were also driven by strong demand for sister token terraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar, as reported.
Yoon was a former top prosecutor who promised to deregulate the crypto industry. Both he and his opponent, Lee Jae-myung of the ruling Liberal Party, announced crypto-friendly measures to win over younger voters, as reported.
Yoon has promised to raise the proposed threshold for the 20% capital-gains tax on cryptocurrency profits to KRW 52.4 million (US$42,450). This is higher than the current KRW 2.5 million threshold due to start in 2023. He also promised to ""take legal measures to confiscate crypto profits gained through illegitimate means and return them to the victims.”
The current government under President Moon Jae-in has cracked down on crypto in South Korea, which became one of the biggest markets for the asset class with a young, tech-friendly population. Regulatory restrictions saw some 70 Korean exchanges close last year, leaving only a handful operating as of Thursday.
Analysts said similar price volatility should be expected as countries warm up to the industry.
""This week has been, what many consider, a positive turning point for the crypto and digital assets industry,"" said James Wo, founder of crypto fund DFG, in a Telegram message. ""With [two] global leaders such as the U.S. and South Korea signaling the intent to work on analyzing and educating themselves to embrace a technological advancement that has grown to have close to $2 trillion in market cap with slim to none guardrails, the market is reacting with high expectations.""
""We could see important upside volatility as major jurisdictions adopt similar positions,"" Wo said."
36,58,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/03/17/nansen-adds-terra-for-on-chain-analytics-as-home-of-luna-grows-as-defi-hub/,Nansen Adds Terra for On-Chain Analytics as Home of LUNA Grows as DeFi Hub,It becomes the sixth blockchain to be supported by the popular data platform.,2022-03-17,"As Terra’s influence in decentralized finance (DeFi) grows, traders are now equipped with new tools to track it.
Popular wallet profiler and analytics platform Nansen announced on Thursday that it has expanded its coverage to Terra, now the sixth blockchain the service analyzes.
The coverage comes at a time when Terra is emerging as a DeFi powerhouse and its native token, LUNA, is bucking wider market trends.
Terra is currently the second-largest chain in terms of total value locked (TVL) at $25.6 billion, comfortably outstripping Binance Smart Chain’s $11.9 billion. Likewise, LUNA is up 65% on the month, while ETH has fallen by 5%.
Part of the popularity of the chain is attributable to its high performance. Per a press release provided to CoinDesk, “research from Nansen shows that the total number of transactions on Terra hover around 50% of Ethereum’s total transactions while gas fees paid are between 0.2%–0.6% of that paid on Ethereum.”
However, detractors say that much of the volume that Terra has attracted is due to Anchor, a stablecoin minting protocol that yields over 19% to depositors.
The protocol is often referred to as pyramidal or “ponzinomic” in nature, and high-profile Twitter personalities have been engaging in bets about the price of LUNA in part as a proxy for Anchor’s success."
37,344,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/17/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-stays-above-40000-while-ether-bounces-on-testnet-success/,"First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Stays Above $40,000 While Ether Bounces on Testnet Success","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for March 17, 2022.",2022-03-17,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin held above the $40,000 level on Thursday amid a broader uptick in global equities as the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) hiked interest rates by 0.25% on Wednesday as expected. Fed Chair Jerome Powell signaled the U.S. economy was “very strong” and could handle monetary tightening, causing a jump in equities. Meanwhile, the Bank of England holds its monetary policy meeting today, and is expected to raise interest rates to their pre-COVID levels.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time. Today’s show will feature guests:
Raghu Yarlagadda, CEO, FalconX.
Robert Leshner, founder, Compound Labs.
Carole House, director of cybersecurity and secure digital innovation, White House National Security Council.
By Shaurya Malwa
The U.S. Federal Reserve hiked interest rates by 0.25% on Wednesday as expected.
Fed Chair Jerome Powell signaled the U.S. economy was “very strong” and could handle monetary tightening, causing a jump in equities. Meanwhile, the Bank of England holds its monetary policy meeting today, and is expected to raise interest rates to their pre-COVID levels.
U.S. futures shed 0.51% in European trading hours while crude oil jumped 4% to near $100. Europe’s Stoxx 600 rose 0.22%, while Asian markets added a second day of gains with Hong Kong’s Hang Sang index rising 7% and Japan’s Nikkei 225 increasing 3.46%.
Bitcoin added nearly 4% over the past 24 hours to trade at $41,640 before traders took profits. Ether added 4.7% to weekly highs of $2,790, while Terra’s LUNA lost 0.6% in 24 hours.
Investors tied ether’s gains to successful testing on the Ethereum network ahead of its move to a proof-of-stake network.
“Ethereum showed bullish movements on the back of its successful merge on the Kiln testnet, a fundamental milestone in its path toward the transition to proof-of- stake in the course of the year,” said Fabio Pezzotti, founder of crypto investment firm Iconium, in a Telegram message. “We expect the main assets to gain momentum amid positive developments regarding a ceasefire in Ukraine, which would likely revert the bearish trends of the last few months,” he added.
Meanwhile, some analysts said strength in bitcoin was buoyed by positive sentiment for the asset among traders.
“Since the last days of February, there has been a solid support line on the declines under $38,000,“ explained Alex Kuptsikevich, market analyst at FxPro, in an email to CoinDesk. “And this is bullish strength, reflecting that long-term buyer interest has migrated from $30,000 to $38,000 due to inflation and geopolitical tensions.”
EU Regulators Warn Consumers That Crypto Assets are 'Highly Risky'
Crypto Miner Hut 8 Reports Surprise Q4 Loss, Shares Fall
Eqonex Appoints Former Head of Binance UK Jonathan Farnell as CEO
Bitcoin Holds Above $40K After Fed Hike, Avalanche’s AVAX Leads Gains Amongst Crypto Majors
Bitcoin-Focused VC Stillmark Hires Former Google X Engineer Vikash Singh
We Voted on It, and You’re Fired. Welcome to the New World of DAOs
Riot Blockchain Sees 2022 as Year of Consolidation in Bitcoin Mining Sector"
38,222,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/17/bitcoin-holds-above-40k-after-fed-hike-avalanches-avax-leads-gains-amongst-crypto-majors/,"Bitcoin Holds Above $40K After Fed Hike, Avalanche’s AVAX Leads Gains Among Crypto Majors","Cease-fire talks could reverse a bearish trend, one analyst said.",2022-03-17,"Bitcoin (BTC) held above $40,000 on Thursday amid a broader uptick in global equities as the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) hiked interest rates by 0.25% as expected.
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell signaled the U.S. economy was “very strong” and could handle monetary tightening, causing a jump in equities. Meanwhile, the Bank of England will also holds its policy meeting on Thursday and is expected to raise interest rates to pre-COVID levels.
U.S. futures shed 0.51% during European trading hours ,while Brent crude oil futures jumped 4% to nearly $100 a barrel. Europe’s Stoxx 600 rose 0.22%, while Asian markets added a second day of gains with Hong Kong’s Hang Sang index rising 7% and Japan’s Nikkei 225 increasing 3.46%.
Bitcoin added nearly 4% over the past 24 hours to trade at $41,640 before traders took profits. Ether (ETH) added 4.7% to weekly highs of $2,790, and Terra’s LUNA lost 0.6% in 24 hours.
Avalanche’s AVAX rose over 11% in the past 24 hours to lead gains among major cryptocurrencies as Terra’s UST stablecoins were deployed on the Avalanche network. Users can now deposit, borrow and earn yields on UST deposits using Avalanche.
Investors tied ether’s gains to successful testing on the Ethereum network ahead of its move to a proof-of-stake network.
“Ethereum showed bullish movements on the back of its successful merge on the Kiln testnet, a fundamental milestone in its path toward the transition to proof-of-stake in the course of the year,” Fabio Pezzotti, founder of crypto investment firm Iconium, said in a Telegram message.
“We expect the main assets to gain momentum amid positive developments regarding a cease-fire in Ukraine, which would likely revert the bearish trends of the last few months,” he added.
Crypto market capitalization grew by 4% over the past day to $1.82 trillion. The Bitcoin Dominance Index rose 0.2 points to 42.8%. The Fear and Greed index – which calculates market sentiment – added 3 more points in the day to take the “fear” level to 27 suggesting improved sentiment among investors.
Meanwhile, some analysts said strength in bitcoin was buoyed by positive sentiment for the asset among traders.
“Since the last days of February, there has been a solid support line on the declines under $38,000,"" Alex Kuptsikevich, a market analyst at FxPro, wrote in an email to CoinDesk. “And this is bullish strength, reflecting that long-term buyer interest has migrated from $30,000 to $38,000 due to inflation and geopolitical tensions.
“Such a migration of the level of interest to long-term buyers fully reflects the price jump, which is the actual depreciation of the value of fiat currencies,” he added."
39,107,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/25/bitcoin-tops-44k-amid-rumors-of-terras-lfg-accumulating-btc/,Bitcoin Tops $44K Amid Rumors of Terra's Foundation Accumulating BTC,"Terra is becoming a persistent buyer of bitcoin, one observer said.",2022-03-25,"Bitcoin (BTC) continues to gain ground amid unconfirmed reports suggesting that a foundation focused on UST, the world's fourth-largest stablecoin, is accumulating the top cryptocurrency as a reserve asset.
CoinDesk data shows that bitcoin tapped three-week highs of over $44,000 early Friday. The cryptocurrency has rallied more than 10% since the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) raised borrowing costs by 25 basis points on March 16.
The rumor mill is that Singapore-based nonprofit Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) purchased bitcoin worth $125 million (2,840 BTC at the current price) early this week, delivering on its month-old promise to add BTC as an additional layer of security for UST – Terra's decentralized dollar-pegged stablecoin.
Stablecoin tether (USDT) worth $125 million was recently moved from a Gnosis safe address allegedly owned by Terra, perhaps evidence of the purchase, as CoinDesk's Christine Lee noted on Thursday.
According to Anthony Pompliano, the popular crypto evangelist and partner at Morgan Creek Digital, the foundation has become a persistent bitcoin buyer. ""They are slowly purchasing $3 billion of bitcoin from the Luna Foundation reserves. This is being done via aggressive buying on price dips,"" Pompliano noted in blog post published on Monday.
According to pseudonymous market expert and Anchor Protocol user Duo Nine, who operates the Twitter handle @DU09BTC, LFG has accumulated 18,000 bitcoin worth over $800 million.
The official confirmation of the said purchases is still awaited. The foundation announced the decision to build a $1 billion bitcoin reserve last month. Do Kwon, founder and CEO of Terraform Labs, recently said that the foundation has plans to increase its reserves to $3 billion, with a long-term goal of raising a $10 billion fund.
While the jury remains out on the size of the foundation's recent purchases, the speculation, along with the post-Fed rally in equities, appears to be boding well for bitcoin.
""[There is] decent bid in crypto markets driven by excitement over institutional participation, building ETH merge narrative, and (unconfirmed) a $125 million BTC purchase by Luna Foundation Guard,"" Ilan Solot, a partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email early this week.
Analysts remain confident of the near-term prospects. ""We are at the upper band of resistance currently as BTC approached 2022 highs. With the spot flow we have been seeing, we are cautiously optimistic that there will be a continuation of the medium-term uptrend and a run to $50,000,"" Matthew Dibb, chief operating officer and co-founder of Stack Funds, said.
Data tracked by Glassnode shows the number of coins held on centralized exchanges has dropped to 2,506,635 BTC, the lowest since September 2018. More than 7,000 coins have left exchanges in less than a week, offering bullish cues to the market.
Bitcoin was recently trading near $44,190, representing a 1% gain on the day."
40,182,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/27/just-as-hal-finney-predicted-bitcoin-is-being-purchased-to-act-as-a-reserve-currency/,"Just as Hal Finney Predicted, Bitcoin Is Being Purchased to Act as a Reserve Currency","With a plan to buy up $10 billion of BTC, Do Kwon’s UST stablecoin project may be fulfilling a prophecy by the late recipient of the first bitcoin transaction.",2022-03-27,"Hal Finney received the first-ever Bitcoin transaction. Hal passed from ALS in 2014, but his legacy lives on because he was a genius (at least, by my account). Or a time traveler. Or a clairvoyant. I mean, he tweeted this in 2009.
Later, in 2010, Finney wrote a message on the famed BitcoinTalk forum that discussed the “ultimate fate of Bitcoin, to be the ‘high-powered money’ that serves as a reserve currency for banks that issue their own digital cash.” Now we’re seeing another Finney premonition potentially coming true.
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
On March 14, Do Kwon, the founder of Terraform Labs, announced UST was going to be backed by a $10 billion reserve of bitcoin (BTC). Terraform Labs created the Terra protocol that issues the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and luna (LUNA), the latter of which algorithmically backs the former.
While Terraform Labs is not exactly a bank, it is issuing its own digital cash to make paying for things easier – and it’s about to be backed by bitcoin. This is a big deal for anyone with a vested interest in the Bitcoin system, even if you vehemently reject altcoins (non-bitcoin cryptos; there is another, less flattering term for these).
Taking a step back, a stablecoin is a cryptocurrency whose value is pegged to some other asset, usually the U.S. dollar. Stablecoins are important because they are widely used in crypto trading, with Tether’s USDT making up a majority of trading volume. But they also have potential payment applications. In total, USD stablecoins represent at least $180 billion of total market value.
Most popular stablecoins, like USDT and Circle’s USD coin (USDC), hold real-world assets as backing. For USDT, it’s a mixed bag; for USDC it’s cash (and “fairly stated” cash equivalents). These are called collateralized stablecoins. There are other types of stablecoins known as algorithmic stablecoins, like UST.
I’ll admit that I sorta kinda lied to you. UST is algorithmic but it will become somewhat collateralized. The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) was set up in January. LFG is a nonprofit organization with a mission focused on promoting a “truly decentralized economy.” Its primary focus is Terra and providing a reserve backstop in case the UST/LUNA incentive mechanism fails. What better asset to hold in reserve than the preeminent crypto and reserve asset 3.0?
Initially, LFG intends to buy $3 billion of BTC. Of that, $2.2 billion has already been raised through $1 billion of outside funding and $1.2 billion of USDT which was purchased with UST that LFG already had (the remaining $800 million is coming). Kwon added on Twitter that the BTC reserve could grow to $10 billion by using a “portion of the seigniorage '' through normal operation of the Terra protocol to buy BTC. Seigniorage is a big word for the excess value of newly minted currency over the cost of producing it. In government terms, U.S. quarters have less than $0.25 of metal in them; in UST terms, the cost of production is nearly zero so a portion of seigniorage profits are burned and the other portion goes to the treasury.
It may have already started. There is a bitcoin address that’s rumored to be LFG’s and it looks as if the nonprofit is buying $125 million of BTC every day. For an asset that churns out >$20 billion in volume each day that doesn’t seem like much, but 60 basis points of volume can be meaningful. Kyle Davies of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital indicated as much on Twitter. These daily purchases could also last for months if LFG does in fact want to get to $10 billion of BTC reserves.
This should appeal to anyone who pays attention to crypto. The main criticism of collateralized stablecoins is that their need for “attestations” (not quite the same thing as audits) by accountants cut against the ethos of crypto. “Don’t trust, verify” pulses through the veins of lovers of decentralization, and just taking what Circle or Tether tells us about their backing at face value seems wrong.
If successful, UST could become a dollar stablecoin backed by a completely auditable, transparent and decentralized digital asset. That’s a big deal. You won’t need to trust Do Kwon that the collateral is there, nor an accounting firm that will qualify its assurances with weasel words. You’ll be able to see for yourself on the blockchain.
And if this happens, you won’t be able to convince me that Hal wasn’t just another physical manifestation of Pythia."
41,255,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/28/market-wrap-bitcoin-rallies-as-crypto-holders-accumulate/,Market Wrap: Bitcoin Rallies as Crypto Holders Accumulate,Crypto prices are rising after the Luna Foundation Guard purchased $1 billion worth of BTC.,2022-03-28,"Bitcoin (BTC) surged past $47,000 and is attempting to reverse a bearish start to the year.
The world's largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization is up 15% over the past week, compared with a 16% rise in ether (ETH) and a 25% rise in Solana's SOL token over the same period. The rally in alternative cryptocurrencies (altcoins) relative to BTC reflects a greater appetite for risk among crypto investors.
Sign up for Market Wrap, our daily newsletter explaining what happened today in crypto markets – and why. Coming April 4.
Meanwhile, the S&P 500 was roughly flat Monday, versus a 6% rise in BTC over the past 24 hours. That suggests the recent rally in bitcoin can be explained by new token accumulation, which is unique to the crypto market.
Over the past six days, the Luna Foundation Guard’s (LFG) bitcoin wallet address purchased more than 27,000 BTC worth roughly $1.3 billion. The foundation is delivering on its month-old promise to add BTC as an additional layer of security for UST, which is Terra's decentralized dollar-pegged stablecoin.
Do Kwon, the foundation's director, confirmed the address to Bitcoin Magazine in an email, which was also marked by OKLink, a blockchain information website.
There appears to be a synergy between bitcoin and the Terra ecosystem, according to Lucas Outumuro, head of research at IntoTheBlock, a crypto data company. ""UST benefits from having additional backing and bitcoin benefits not just from the buying pressure, but also from having a stable medium of exchange backed by BTC,"" Outumuro wrote in an email to CoinDesk.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $48,010, +6.84%
●Ether (ETH): $3,412, +7.22%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,576, +0.71%
●Gold: $1,919 per troy ounce, −1.78%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.48%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin's recent price bounce appears to be driven by demand in the spot market, which typically occurs around market turning points.
The chart below shows the rise in spot BTC volume versus futures volume, which has settled at around average levels over the past week.
In the futures market, open interest is rising and funding rates are slightly positive (at a one-week high). That indicates an increase in trading activity, albeit with weak conviction among BTC buyers.
The chart below shows an uptick in bitcoin trading volume across major exchanges, according to CoinDesk data. Prior volume spikes occurred during market sell-offs, which signaled capitulation among sellers.
At this stage, an increase in buy volume versus sell volume could determine if the price rally has staying power. Data from CryptoQuant shows a slight increase in the buy/sell volume ratio over the past week, which indicates bullish sentiment among bitcoin traders.
Shiba Inu, Solana tokens lead gains with bitcoin: Major cryptocurrencies displayed gains after over two weeks of staying flat. Solana’s SOL jumped as much as 14%, with similar gains seen with Shiba Inu’s SHIB and Polkadot’s DOT tokens. A jump in SOL prices made it costly for traders betting against higher prices of the asset. Data shows nearly $30 million in liquidations occurred on SOL-tracked futures, according to CoinDesk’s Shaurya Malwa. Read more here.
NFTs could go mainstream with Instagram’s planned support: Bringing non-fungible-tokens to Instagram’s large audience has the potential to supercharge the overall market going mainstream, Deutsche Bank said in a research report on Sunday. Instagram will simplify the process of buying and selling NFTs, thereby lowering the barriers to entry, the bank said, adding that the platform’s strong global brand recognition will “lend itself to legitimatize NFTs, which could serve to erode buying hesitancy across the company’s broader audience,” analysts wrote, according to CoinDesk’s Will Canny. Read more here.
BAYC’s ApeCoin jumps 13%, causes $4.5M in futures liquidations: Traders of futures tracking ApeCoin (APE) lost over $4.5 million in the past 24 hours as prices surged by 13% amid a broader market jump, data from tracking took Coinglass shows. Some 66% of all APE futures traders were short, or betting against higher prices for the recently issued token. These accounted for $2.8 million of all losses, while $1.4 million in gains were for traders who were long, or betting on higher prices, according to CoinDesk’s Shaurya Malwa. Read more here.
Recession Signals Light Up as Section of US 'Yield Curve' Inverts: The recession hint could have bearish implications for risk assets, including bitcoin.
Biden Budget Proposal Estimates Additional $11B in Revenues by 2032 by Updating Crypto Rules: The proposal also seeks to expand the DOJ’s budget by $52 million to fight ransomware and combat the “misuse of cryptocurrency.”
US Lawmakers Introduce 'ECASH' Bill in New Push to Create a Digital Dollar: The e-cash would be a digital analogue to the greenback and could preserve privacy and anonymous transactions, according to an adviser on the bill.
Japan to Plug Loophole to Prevent Russia From Evading Sanctions Through Crypto: Report: Reuters reports a number of top government officials promising an imminent change to the country's Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act.
Bitcoin Could Reach $53K on Triangle Break, Impending Bull Cross, Analysts Say: The cryptocurrency's two-month triangular consolidation ended early Monday with a convincing move to $47,000.
Digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
There are no losers in CoinDesk 20 today.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive, and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
42,76,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/29/terras-luna-set-new-highs-of-nearly-106/,Terra’s LUNA Set New Highs of Nearly $106,Prices have increased nearly 10% in the past 24 hours.,2022-03-29,"Terra’s LUNA tokens rose 10% in the past 24 hours to set new all-time highs of over $105.91, data shows.
LUNA breached a previous high of $104.74 from earlier this month, price charts show.
LUNA is one of the two native tokens of the Terra network, a framework that allows developers to create custom blockchains and build their own decentralized applications on top of Terra for various use cases.
Sentiment for LUNA has grown in the past month largely due to the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a Singapore-based nonprofit that is purchasing over $3 billion worth of bitcoin (BTC) as an additional layer of security for UST, Terra's decentralized dollar-pegged stablecoin.
LFG’s demand for bitcoin has led to a recovery in the past week. Bitcoin breached the $47,000 level yesterday, the highest level since the start of this year.
Data shows LUNA has risen some 86,215.7% from all-time lows of $0.121798 in March 2020, making it one of the best performing tokens in the past two years. LUNA has a market capitalization of $37 billion at time of writing and is ranked eighth largest among other cryptos."
43,114,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/29/tracking-luna-foundation-guards-bitcoin-purchases/,Tracking Luna Foundation Guard’s Bitcoin Purchases,"Thanks to the transparency of Bitcoin, we can watch along as LFG moves UST towards a bitcoin-backed existence.",2022-03-29,"It was recently announced that the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a nonprofit organization focused on the Terra blockchain protocol, might purchase $10 billion or more of bitcoin (BTC) to act as a reserve for the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin. While the specifics on how the BTC will be wrapped for use by the protocol are still in the works, thanks to the transparency of the Bitcoin blockchain we can see just how much bitcoin LFG has purchased.
CoinDesk has confirmed that the LFG’s bitcoin address is bc1q9d4ywgfnd8h43da5tpcxcn6ajv590cg6d3tg6axemvljvt2k76zs50tv4q.
The actions of the address – such as purchases or transfers – can be viewed using a block explorer or a full node. OKLink, a blockchain explorer, has also tagged the address as LFG’s. More conveniently, there is a Twitter bot that tracks the balance of the LFG wallet. As a result, we can track LFG’s progress as it builds up its bitcoin reserve.
As of writing, LFG is in the process of raising $3 billion, most of which has already been raised, to buy bitcoin and has purchased almost 28,000 bitcoin, worth ~$1.3 billion. Given the indication that LFG intends to hold more than $10 billion in bitcoin, there is more purchasing that LFG needs to do. Absent any large moves in BTC price, that could mean ~180,000 bitcoin of purchase volume in the coming months. Given there is more than $20 billion of bitcoin trading volume each day and that LFG has made most of its purchases in ~$125 million lots, it won’t have any issues filling its purchase orders.
Still, this is a meaningful slug of purchase demand.
Bitcoin has always been a permissionless, decentralized network that powers a fully transparent asset. So, if successful, UST could become a dollar stablecoin backed by a fully transparent asset. Right now, collateralized stablecoins like USDT and USDC are backed by dollars in reserve, but the amount of backing is only verified by accounting firms’ assurances. A dollar stablecoin with provable reserves might be seen by some analysts as an improvement on the current collateralized stablecoins where users need to trust, rather than verify, assets in reserve.
Read more: Just as Hal Finney Predicted, Bitcoin Is Being Purchased to Act as a Reserve Currency
This could be an important development for stablecoins. Stablecoin trading pairs – say, UST for ether (ETH) – make up a significant majority of crypto trading volume and, beyond that, they have potential payment use cases. As the economy, crypto or otherwise, increases dependence on stablecoins, the reliability of their peg becomes paramount. An important stablecoin project moving to a bitcoin backing could prove a useful development in the journey for fiat-pegged digital cash."
44,102,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/03/30/bitcoin-holds-steady-as-luna-foundation-guard-slows-purchases/,Bitcoin Holds Steady as Luna Foundation Guard Resumes Purchases,"The organization, which splurged on the cryptocurrency last week, resumed buying BTC on Wednesday after a one-day hiatus, according to one observer.",2022-03-30,"Bitcoin (BTC) remains on the hunt for a move above the 200-day average as Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a non-profit organization focused on UST, resumed buying the largest cryptocurrency after taking a break on Tuesday.
LFG has purchased 5,773 BTC, worth $272 million, this week, the foundation's confirmed bitcoin address showed at 09:42 UTC (5:42 a.m. ET). Nearly half was purchased on Monday and the rest a few minutes before press time. Last week, it acquired about $125 million of BTC each week day.
""The foundation had a trading hiatus after Monday's big purchase. It is back today [snapped up 2,943 BTC],"" Arcane Research's Vetle Lunde told CoinDesk in a Twitter chat. ""Last week, LFG sent $125 million worth of USDT across all weekdays and $160 million on Saturday to Jump Trading, who executed the BTC trades quickly thereafter."" USDT is the symbol for tether, the world's largest stablecoin by market value.
LFG announced last month that it had raised $1 billion through an over-the-counter sale of LUNA, the native token of the Terra blockchain, to build a bitcoin-denominated reserve as an additional layer of security for Terra's decentralized dollar-pegged stablecoin UST, the fourth-largest stablecoin. The funding round was led by Jump Crypto and Three Arrows Capital.
The foundation increased the size of its bitcoin reserve to $3 billion early this month and has been using tether to purchase BTC. Tether helps users bypass market volatility by maintaining a 1:1 peg with the U.S. dollar.
""The reserve will help maintain a UST peg to the dollar during downward peg deviations,"" Lunde told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat. The coin has been able to retail the dollar peg by issuing and destroying LUNA tokens. For every UST created, $1 worth of Luna is burned on the Terra blockchain.
LFG has accumulated 30,728 BTC worth $1.45 billion, topping the initial target of $1 billion. The foundation's Ethereum address now has stablecoins worth $848 million, which can be used to fund further BTC purchases. It could get an additional $800 million by converting its UST holdings to tether.
While there is no formula or frequency for executing purchases and no deadline for building the reserve, the process would be completed in the next two weeks if LFG reverted to it previous buying pattern.
""If LFG continues to buy at a similar rate as last week and the $800 million is not converted, LFG will finalize building the BTC reserve on April 6. Assuming a stable BTC price of $47,000 until April 6, LFG will have 48,800 BTC in its reserve once finished,"" Lunde said in Tuesday's blog post.
""If LFG also spends its $800 million UST reserves on BTC, this process will be finalized around April 14, with a further *~17,000 BTC being added to the reserve, leading the reserves to reach 65,000 BTC,"" Lunde added.
The implication is that, at least for the short term, the path of least resistance for bitcoin appears to be on the higher side. Terraform Labs founder and CEO Do Kwon recently tweeted that LFG could eventually increase the size of the reserve to $10 billion.
Bitcoin was last trading near $47,500, little changed on the day. The cryptocurrency rose nearly 13.5% last week, the biggest single-week percentage rise since April 2021, data provided by charting platform TradingView show. According to Arcane Research, LFG's purchases probably contributed to lifting the market and the foundation's activity must be closely tracked in coming days.
UPDATE (March 30, 10:06 UTC): Updates LFG's weekly purchase to 5,773 BTC from 2,830 BTC following fresh inflows into the foundation's bitcoin address."
45,351,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/05/first-mover-asia-singapore-wants-more-control-over-crypto-companies-that-call-it-home-but-arent-there-major-cryptos-drop/,First Mover Asia: Singapore Wants More Control Over Crypto Companies That Call It Home but Aren’t There; Major Cryptos Drop,"Many crypto companies, especially those with roots in Asia, choose to register their companies in Singapore, but the city-state has grown uncomfortable with the scale of this arrangement; bitcoin and ether fall.",2022-04-05,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos were off after hawkish remarks by Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard.
Insights: Singapore tightens restrictions on crypto companies that register there but do not have a physical presence in the city-state.
Technician's take: BTC buyers could remain active on pullbacks into the Asia trading day.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $45,890 -1.1%
Ether (ETH): $3,466 -1.5%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin, ether fall slightly
Bitcoin continued its recent restlessness on Tuesday, falling sharply after hawkish remarks by U.S. central bank Governor Lael Brainard, and amid the latest onrush of unsettling news from Ukraine. Other major cryptos were similarly in the red with DOGE and CELO the two significant outliers. The former rose over 17% at one point and the latter about 9%.
Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was recently trading just below $46,000, down from a high earlier in the day above $47,000 and off about 1% over the past 24 hours,. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at a little over $3,400, down roughly 1.5%.
Crypto prices dovetailed with major equity markets, which were largely off as investors considered additional interest rate hikes to curb inflation, which has soared to nearly 8% in the U.S. The tech-focused Nasdaq fell 2.2%, while the S&P 500 dropped 1.2%. In a speech at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Brainard called the reduction of inflation of “paramount importance.""
“The committee will continue tightening monetary policy methodically through a series of interest rate increases and by starting to reduce the balance sheet at a rapid pace as soon as our May meeting,” she said.
Meanwhile, Europe continued to wrestle with the moral and economic issues stemming from Russia's unprovoked invasion of neighboring Ukraine. Recent photos showing the slaughter of civilians in the town of Bucha near the Ukraine capital of Kyiv has brought mass condemnation. Spain, Denmark and Sweden, among others, expelled Russian diplomats while the U.S. and other countries that have condemned Russia are readying new economic sanctions.
U.S. President Joe Biden and the leaders of other countries have called for banning energy imports from Russia, a measure already undertaken by Lithuania. Germany, Europe's largest economy, has been a notable resister, saying that such measures would ignite a recession and cost the country jobs. ""An immediate embargo of Russian natural gas would be the wrong way to go,"" said Lars Klingbeil, co-leader of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's Social Democratic Party, said in an interview with a German news show.
Other crypto news has been more upbeat. MicroStrategy (MSTR) said on Tuesday that it had acquired an additional 4,100 bitcoins worth about $190 million. The news came less than two weeks after Terra's Luna foundation announced its commitment to purchase at least $3 billion in bitcoin.
Still, the events have not had a big impact on bitcoin, which itself may be a sign of the market's increasing maturity. ""The market is big enough that it doesn't really matter much,"" Cory Klippsten, the CEO of the bitcoin savings platform Swan Bitcointold CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program on Tuesday, adding: ""Bitcoin marches on. Tiktok, next block.""
S&P 500: 4,525 -1.2%
DJIA: 34,641 -0.8%
Nasdaq: 14,204 -2.2%
Gold: $1,920 -0.5%
Singapore's effort to control crypto companies That Call the city state home but aren’t there
There’s a mini-boom in Taiwan of Web 3 companies. Over the past two years, dozens of high-profile projects have emerged from Taipei.
But where are these companies registered? Singapore.
Taiwan’s business registration process is a drawn-out process that requires a great deal of patience. If all goes to plan, the registration is complete in two to six months.
By contrast, the process takes 72 hours in Singapore and sometimes less than a day.
So it's understandable that many crypto companies – especially those based in Asia – choose Singapore. If your only asset is code and the team distributed, you can get picky about the jurisdiction in which you want to register. Why deal with Taiwan’s sclerotic bureaucracy when you can instead pick somewhere that operates with a sense of urgency?
But authorities in Singapore seem to be growing uncomfortable with the scale of this arrangement. Hundreds of crypto firms are registered there but have no material ties to the city-state, and are outside of the grasp of regulators.
The Singapore government is moving to change this. Earlier this week the Parliament passed a law that will require crypto businesses based in the city-state but only doing business overseas to be licensed, making them accountable to the authorities in the island these firms call home on paper.
In the reporting on the issue, there wasn’t much discussion of why this is occurring, nor was there mention of a particular event that spurred this decision.
As much as the crypto industry likes to talk about regulatory nomadism, there are reasons why this makes regulators uncomfortable. If a company has no physical ties to an area aside from the paper, there’s not really a way for regulators to compel a company to follow its directives. There are no offices to raid or assets to seize. Things like money laundering and terror financing come into the picture.
This is why Binance’s institutional investors want it to ""settle down"" and find somewhere to call home. Committing to a jurisdiction and placing assets and personnel there makes regulators breathe easier, compared with a company that is registered in one place and operates in another.
Still, Singapore’s move on licensure shouldn’t be seen as another chapter in its recent, less-friendly attitude toward crypto. Rather, it’s a simple ask for companies to commit to playing by the rules – rules that are still conducive to running a crypto business.
Bitcoin Range-Bound; Support at $43K-$45K
Bitcoin (BTC) is stabilizing after a 3% price drop during the New York trading day.
The cryptocurrency has failed to break above resistance at $47,000 over the past few days, which indicates a loss of upside momentum. Still, lower support around $43,000 and $45,000 could stabilize the pullback.
Momentum signals remain negative on the daily chart, similar to what occurred in early February. This time, however, bitcoin has broken above $43,000 with positive momentum on the weekly chart. That means buyers could remain active on pullbacks.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is declining from overbought levels, similar to what occurred in October of last year. Still, overbought signals can persist for a few months before a significant downturn in price.
Bitcoin 2022 conference Miami
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia and New Zealand Banking Group commodity price (March)
9:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:45 a.m. UTC): Caixin (China) Services PMI (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Impact of Terra’s BTC Buying Spree on Bitcoin Markets, What Really Happened to QuadrigaCX Founder Gerald Cotten?
What is moving the bitcoin markets? Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten joined ""First Mover"" to provide his analysis. The Netflix documentary ""Trust No One: The Hunt for the Crypto King"" reveals the story of one of crypto's worst scandals. Andrew Wagner of BlockRaiders Guild shared what he knows about the story. Plus, Marina Niforos of HEC Paris provided insights on the EU's central bank digital currency.
Can India’s Controversial New Tax Law Be Challenged in Court? Yes, Say Crypto Lawyers: While the overall bill may not be suitable for a lawsuit, lawyers believe a 1% tax deducted at source may be.
Lightning Labs Raises $70M to Bring Stablecoins to Bitcoin: The Taproot-powered “Taro” protocol aims to bring low-fee stablecoin and asset transfers to the Bitcoin Lightning Network.
Bear Markets, Regulations and That Bain Crypto Photo: A Chat With Pantera Capital’s Chief of Staff: Emma Rose Bienvenu uses her legal background to help startups navigate crypto regulations.
Shiba Inu's Metaverse Will Feature More Than 100K Land Plots: Developers have decided to use Ethereum's native cryptocurrency, ether, as a land pricing token.
Crypto Funds Draw Inflows for Second Straight Week: Some $180 million flowed into digital asset funds in the week through April 1, CoinShares reported on Monday.
The Bigger Problem With Axie Infinity: The $620 million Ronin exploit isn't the half of it; play-to-earn ain't free.
Today's crypto explainer: No Stupid Questions: What’s a Crypto Token, Anyway?
Other voices: An ex-cop fell for Alice. Then he fell for her $66 million crypto scam.
""The significance of holding power over a global network should be obvious. Whether it’s OPEC, SWIFT, the Strait of Hormuz or internet infrastructure, it’s clear how well-positioned stakeholders can leverage their measure of control over a network to exert influence. With Bitcoin, however, much of the authority rests in hash power. That’s where mining comes in as a matter of national security."" (AAX Head of Research and Strategy Ben Caselin for CoinDesk) ... ""The reality is that Russia’s financial position is stronger in the short term than many expected but still weak in the long term. Some of the actions that Russia has taken to prop up the ruble are taking its financial system back to the way it was under the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which crumbled in 1991."" (The New York Times op-ed writer Peter Coy) ... ""Last year was the largest ever for crypto donations by far. According to Fidelity Charitable, the financial services giant’s nonprofit that advises donors on charitable giving, around 45% of cryptocurrency investors donated to charities in 2020, compared to 33% of general investors."" (CoinDesk contributor Tanvi Ratna)"
46,104,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/05/terra-wallet-leap-raises-32m-in-private-token-sale/,Terra Wallet Leap Raises $3.2M in Private Token Sale,"If estimates in Leap's litepaper of an 8% private sale allocation hold true, the startup has a valuation of $40 million.",2022-04-05,"Leap, a startup building a non-custodial crypto wallet for the Terra blockchain, raised $3.2 million in funding co-led by CoinFund and Pantera Capital with contributions from Arrington Capital, Accel and Terraform Labs, according to a press release.
Leap raised the funding via a private sale of its LEAP governance and utility token, and in a March litepaper earmarked 8% of the tokens for a private sale. If these estimates hold true, the funding round values the project at $40 million. Founder Sanjeev Rao declined to comment on the valuation.
Leap plans to bolster its engineering, design, product and marketing teams with the fresh capital, Rao said.
Leap's crypto wallet is similar to MetaMask and is a Chrome extension with over 4,000 downloads, according to Rao. Leap supports asset transfers, non-fungible token (NFT) trades and decentralized finance (DeFi) applications across the Terra ecosystem, which runs on Terra's LUNA token and the stablecoin UST. Rao said iOS and Android mobile apps are on the way.
Terra is in “hyper growth phase,” as Rao put it, with UST’s market cap soaring tenfold as the chain’s total value locked (TVL) tops $30 billion, second only to Ethereum, according to DeFi Llama.
Rao said that Terra is bringing “a lot of new users into the space,” therefore, Leap wallet allows for individuals new to crypto to interact with the blockchain through its integration of decentralized applications (dapps) and NFTs in one “super wallet.”
Leap’s biggest competitor is Terra Station, Terraform Labs’ own non-custodial wallet. When asked about Terra Station, Rao said that “a good wallet experience makes or breaks when it comes to onboarding new users,” and Leap keeps up with the space’s rapid growth and changing needs, such as security, design and usability through its dapp integrations.
In the coming months, Leap will release a native governance token for a token-reward program for active wallets, according to Rao. Leap will also allow users to purchase NFT collections on the app.
Only the wallet users have access to their private keys in Leap’s non-custodial setup. This carries be-your-own-bank benefits while establishing personal responsibility, and thus increasing risk. People can still fall victim to copycat websites, Rao said.
Rao said Leap mitigates some of the scam risks by integrating directly with popular Terra-based DeFi protocols, allowing users to stake LUNA and UST without leaving the wallet.
“Being able to deposit in-wallet to Anchor [is] something we built quite early on, something people use a lot. Similarly, we've integrated multiple products from Stader labs, where now users have access to multiple staking options in-wallet.”
CoinFund and Pantera did not respond to CoinDesk's requests for comment by press time."
47,132,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/06/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-dip-buyers-versus-adverse-macro-fed-minutes-eyed/,"First Mover Americas: Luna Foundation Guard Is Back Buying Bitcoin, Fed Minutes on Deck","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for April 6, 2022.",2022-04-06,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin drops as bond yields continue to rise. Technical charts signal more losses ahead. Luna Foundation Guard returned to the bitcoin market with a bang.
Featured Story: Metaverse platforms struggle as user base falls short of market expectations.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Damanick Dantes, markets reporter, CoinDesk
Scott Freeman, partner and co-founder, JST Capital
James Czerniawski, senior tech and innovation policy analyst, Americans for Prosperity
Bilal Hafeez, founder and CEO, Macro Hive
By Omkar Godbole
It's dip buyers versus an adverse macroeconomic situation in the crypto market today.
As for dip buyers, after a brief hiatus, Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) – a nonprofit organization mandated to build reserves to support smart contract blockchain Terra's dollar-pegged stablecoin UST – returned to the bitcoin market with a bang.
The foundation snapped up more than 5,000 BTC worth $230 million early Wednesday. That's more than software company MicroStrategy's purchases of 4,167 BTC between Feb. 15 and April 4.
Still, bitcoin traded weak as the uptick in the U.S. government bond yields triggered a renewed aversion to risky assets. MicroStrategy bought bitcoin on price dips in the final quarter of 2021, but that didn't stop or slow down cryptocurrency's bearish trend at the time as it nosedived from $68,000 to $32,000 in three months to late February, predominantly on fears of a more hawkish Federal Reserve.
Crypto Twitter is optimistic that LFG's continued purchases to build a $10 billion bitcoin reserve eventually will help the cryptocurrency decouple from traditional markets this time around. That belief perhaps stems from LFG buying bitcoin in large quantities compared with MicroStrategy's purchases. Only time will tell if LFG saves bitcoin from the macro conditions.
According to some observers, bitcoin's next leg higher would resume once the real or inflation-adjusted yields stop rising. The U.S. 10-year real yield has risen by more than 60 basis points in four weeks to hit a two-year high.
The Fed is scheduled to release the minutes of its March policy meeting on Wednesday. The CME Group's FedWatch Tool points to a greater than 70% probability of a 50 basis points rate hike in May. The central bank raised rates by a quarter percentage point last month.
""Now risk aversion is gradually rising, and the dollar index has reached its year-to-date highest level,"" Griffin Ardern, a volatility trader from crypto-asset management company Blofin, said. ""The liquidity contraction may be accelerating. At 2 p.m. ET, details of the March FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting will be announced.""
FXStreet editor and analyst Eren Sengezer noted that ""in case the minutes show that policymakers considered a bigger rate increase but ended up voting for a 25 bps one to avoid a big market reaction, U.S. Treasury bond yields could continue to rise and provide a boost to the dollar. Market participants will also pay close attention to details surrounding the Fed’s plan to shrink the balance sheet.""
The hourly chart (above left) shows that bitcoin has dived out of a narrowing price range.
The daily chart's relative strength index has breached the ascending trendline and the MACD (moving average divergence convergence) histogram has crossed into bearish territory under zero. As a result, support at $41,780 identified by the 50-day average stands exposed. On the higher side, the 200-day average at $48,266 is the level to beat for the bulls.
Sweden Wants to Test E-Krona Viability for Smart Payments
Coin Metrics Raises $35M for Crypto Data Provision
Luna Foundation Guard Adds $230M of Bitcoin to Stack
Sky Mavis Raises $150M Round Led by Binance to Reimburse Ronin Attack Victims
Metaverse Majors Struggle as User Base Falls Short of Market Expectations
Observers Cautious for Bitcoin as U.S. Inflation-Adjusted Bond Yield Hits 2-Year High
Bitcoin Slumps to $45K Amid Hawkish Fed, Buying Activity Remains Positive
HSBC Starts Metaverse Fund for Private Banking Clients in Asia
By Sam Reynolds
The metaverse, despite all the interest from venture capital and the world’s major brands, is struggling to attract users, and token prices have begun to reflect that. Tokens for the three major metaverse protocols – Decentraland, Axie Infinity and The Sandbox – are all down year-to-date and underperforming bitcoin by a big margin.
While all three have seen significant interest from venture capitalists who have allocated hundreds of millions to the metaverse and GameFi sectors, some market observers say the number of daily active users (DAU) don't reflect that level of investment.
“There is currently no organic engagement that retains players in the game – unlike traditional games like Fortnite, GTA, Candy Crush – where players are willing to pay to keep playing,” Web 3 analyst DeFi Vader wrote in a note last August about Axie Infinity. “If one or a few of those games create organic engagement, then DAU growth may stop being mostly dependent on daily earnings.”
Read The Full Story Here: Metaverse Majors Struggle as User Base Falls Short of Market Expectations
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
48,353,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/06/first-mover-asia-south-koreas-kimchi-premium-evaporates-major-cryptos-tumble-on-fed-minutes-continued-global-uncertainty/,"First Mover Asia: South Korea's 'Kimchi Premium' Evaporates; Major Cryptos Tumble on Fed Minutes, Continued Global Uncertainty",The gap between bitcoin prices on Korean crypto exchanges and global counterparts has declined from 20% to about 3% over the past year; bitcoin and ether tumbled.,2022-04-06,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos fell significantly amid continued macroeconomic turmoil and new evidence of the U.S. Federal Reserve's move to hawkishness.
Insights: South Korea's ""kimchi premium"" has largely evaporated, although the country's climate for crypto has been favorable lately.
Technician's take: BTC broke below a month-long uptrend, but the broad recovery off January lows remains intact.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $43,723 -4.8%
Ether (ETH): $3,216 -6.8%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin, other cryptos slide
Crypto and equity markets haven't always been in step in recent months.
But on Wednesday they were, following another day of macroeconomic turmoil stemming from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and fresh evidence of the U.S. central bank's transformation into a monetary hawk.
Bitcoin (BTC) was recently trading below $44,000, where it dropped earlier in the day less than a week after soaring over $47,000. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was off nearly 5%. Ether (ETH), the second-largest crypto by market cap, fell on even harder times, tumbling almost 7% to change hands just above $3,200.
All major altcoins in the CoinDesk top 20 by market cap, were even further in the red with SOL down over 10% and ADA and DOT each down about 8% at certain points. The meme coins DOGE and SHIB were off about 12% and 9%, respectively.
Meanwhile, U.S. equity markets fell, with the Nasdaq off 2.2%, following the release of minutes from the Federal Reserve's March meeting in which governors discussed raising interest rates in half-point increments. Fed Chair Jerome Powell last week broached the possibility of a half-point hike as a way to tamp down inflation, which at nearly 8% has hit a four-decade high and could potentially increase as the conflict in Ukraine rages, sabotaging energy prices and global supply chains.
Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of energy prices, continued trading over $101 per barrel, a massive increase over the start of the year when it was priced at under $80 per barrel.
The U.S. and other countries that have criticized Russia's aggression took steps to impose full sanctions against Russia's largest financial services companies, including Sberbank, the country's largest financial institution. The countries had previously only imposed partial sanctions on the companies. Sberbank, which holds about one-third of Russia's assets, will now lack any contact with the U.S. banking system.
The sanctions are meant to cripple the Russian economy, which has been able to make debt payments from revenue it receives from energy sales and through limited access to foreign banking. The U.S. has urged European Union countries to ban the Russian oil and gas imports, upon which they are heavily dependent.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Scott Freeman, co-founder and partner of financial services firm JST Capital, suggested the global unrest was hurting bitcoin's price, despite major buys over the past 10 days by Terra's Luna Foundation and MicroStrategy (MSTR), which purchased over $190 million in the crypto this week. ""It's hard to lay a finger on the movement of bitcoin right now,"" Freeman said. ""At the end of the day, we believe there are business macro themes in the environment where people are just not looking to put risk-on right now. People look for opportunities to sell and to profit.""
But, Freeman added: ""We think, longer term, bitcoin and crypto are really good places to put some percentage of your portfolio.""
S&P 500: 4,481 -0.9%
DJIA: 34,496 -0.4%
Nasdaq: 13,888 -2.2%
Gold: $1,925 +0.2%
Bitcoin's kimchi premium evaporates
Bitcoin traded at a discount of 3.2% relative to the U.S. dollar on South Korean markets last week after the launch of new crypto regulations, crypto market data firm Kaiko noted.
That's a market shift from prior years, when South Korea’s unique regulatory framework, which restricts cross-border capital transfers for foreigners, led to a “kimchi premium'' – a gap between bitcoin prices on Korean crypto exchanges compared with global counterparts. Bitcoin traded at over 20% higher at one point last year. The premium also reflects local market demand.
However, for the first time in years this premium has turned into a discount as traders anticipated the adoption of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) ""travel rule,"" Kaiko said.
The rule requires crypto service providers to collect and disclose customer information for all transactions above a particular threshold.
The Kimchi premium's recent flip to a discount might mark the end – for now anyway – of an iconic crypto arbitrage trade, one that several traders and firms, including FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, exploited in its heyday.
Crypto in South Korea has been riding favorable winds lately.
Last week, The Korean Herald reported that SK Square, the investment arm of South Korean conglomerate SK Group, would spend 2 trillion won (US$1.6 billion) in the next three years on semiconductors and blockchain.
SK Square's CEO and Vice Chairman Park Jung-ho noted the ""high growth potential"" of ""chips and blockchain,"" in comments to the newspaper. Rising demand for chips and other components that enable blockchain platforms are a sometimes overlooked benefit of the industry's rapid growth.
Separately, SK Square, part of the SK Group behemoth of 95 separate companies, has established a task force to launch what would be the first token of its kind by a South Korean top 10 conglomerate, often called a chaebol.
The country's newly elected president has promised crypto-friendly policies that include legal measures to confiscate crypto profits gained through illegitimate means and to ensure their return to victims.
Bitcoin Extends Pullback Toward $40K-$43K Support
Bitcoin (BTC) remains in pullback mode after failing to break above the $48,000 resistance level last week.
BTC was down by as much as 4% over the past 24 hours, which is less than some popular alternative cryptocurrencies (altcoins), indicating a lower appetite for risk among crypto traders.
On intraday charts, BTC broke below a month-long uptrend. That means short-term sellers are in control, especially after the breakout level around $45,000 was rejected on Tuesday.
Recent breakdowns on the charts have confirmed negative momentum signals, although pullbacks appear to be limited. For now, the broader recovery from January lows remains intact.
Bitcoin 2022 conference Miami
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia imports/exports (MoM/Feb.)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan leading economic index (Feb. preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Treasury Secretary Yellen to Deliver First Crypto Speech, Musk’s Twitter Board Appointment and More
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will deliver her first official speech to focus on digital assets Thursday. Prior to Yellen's remarks, James Czerniawski of Americans for Prosperity joined ""First Mover"" to share his thoughts on what Yellen would address. Plus, Scott Freeman of JST Capital and insights provided crypto markets analysis and Macro Hive's Bilaf Hafeez discussed Elon Musk's Twitter board appointment.
HSBC Starts Metaverse Fund for Private Banking Clients in Asia: The Metaverse Discretionary Strategy portfolio aims to capture opportunities arising from the next iteration of the internet, the bank said.
Block Notifies 8.2M Customers After Breach of Cash App Investings: A former employee improperly accessed reports related to U.S. customer accounts. The reports did not contain personally identifiable information.
Near Protocol Raises $350M: It’s Near’s second nine-figure raise this year.
Luna Foundation Guard Adds Nearly $230M of Bitcoin to Stack: The foundation now has bigger exposure to bitcoin than the U.S. electric-car maker Tesla.
Dogecoin Rallies Again After Elon Musk Joins Twitter Board: The news comes one day after the Tesla CEO disclosed his ownership of 9.2% of Twitter, making him the company’s largest individual shareholder.
The Bigger Problem With Axie Infinity: The $620 million Ronin exploit isn't the half of it; play-to-earn ain't free.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Other voices: Mark Cuban is ‘very bullish’ on the upcoming Ethereum ‘merge.’ Here’s why he says the upgrade is so important for the cryptocurrency
""The Treasury spokeswoman said the action taken this week would create additional challenges for Russia’s financial system. The Russian government has already imposed capital controls restricting the flow of money in and out of the country."" (The New York Times) ... ""It is imperative that each and every participant in the U.S. crypto market let their voice be heard. The [Securities and Exchange Commission] is accepting comments on its proposal through April 18 and cannot finalize the rule until each and every concern is considered and addressed. And concerns abound."" (ConsenSys lawyer Bill Hughes, for CoinDesk) ... ""The money-transfer service boomed during the [COVID-19] pandemic, when people avoided ATMs and replaced cash and checks with digital money transfers. Zelle recorded some 1.8 billion transactions in 2021 totaling $490 billion, both more than double their pre-pandemic levels."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""If you have a group of people that hold the same token, what can they do? They can move anywhere, both physically [in real life] and online URL. So what a really savvy brand can do is say, “Okay, cool, here's my community, here's my customer base."" The best strategy is actually not to sell NFTs. It's to give them away for free. Give them away, and put them in the hands of your best customers."" (Jump founder Jeff Kauffman)
UPDATE (April 7, 14:49 UTC) – Corrects that Janet Yellen's first address on crypto will be Thursday and did not take place Wednesday."
49,109,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/06/luna-foundation-guard-adds-230m-of-bitcoin-to-stack/,Luna Foundation Guard Adds Nearly $230M of Bitcoin to Stack,The foundation now has bigger exposure to bitcoin than the U.S. electric-car maker Tesla.,2022-04-06,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a non-profit organization mandated to build reserves supporting smart contract blockchain Terra's dollar-pegged stablecoin UST, returned to the crypto market on Wednesday, snapping up bitcoin (BTC) worth $227 million.
LFG purchased 5,040 BTC, boosting its stash to 35,768 BTC valued at $1.6 billion at the current market price of $45,100, the foundation's confirmed bitcoin address shows.
That's the first significant purchase since March 30. The foundation acquired about $125 million worth of bitcoin each day, starting from March 22 to March 25 and allocated $160 million on March 26.
LFG announced in February that it had raised $1 billion through an over-the-counter sale to build a bitcoin reserve as an additional layer of security for UST.
The reserve size was increased to $3 billion last month, with Terraform Labs founder and CEO Do Kwon tweeting plans to eventually build a $10 billion bitcoin stash.
The foundation's buying spree has put it ahead of the U.S. electric car maker Tesla (TSLA), which holds $1.26 billion worth of BTC on its balance sheet.
The latest purchase comes as macro jitters weigh over bitcoin, offering the foundation an opportunity to load up at cheap prices.
Read More: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
UPDATE (April 6, 11:31 UTC): Adds ""nearly"" in the headline."
50,348,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/07/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-set-to-close-week-underperforming-major-japan-china-stocks/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Set to Close Week Underperforming Major Japan, China Stocks",Investors in the region were more risk-averse this week amid fresh evidence of the U.S. central bank's commitment to hawkish monetary policy and an unsettled macroeconomic environment; cryptos were mixed.,2022-04-07,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether were roughly flat over the past 24 hours.
Insights: Bitcoin has been underperforming major Asian stock indices amid investors' concerns about interest rate hikes and uncertain macroeconomic conditions.
Technician's take: Range-bound price action could persist for a few days.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $43,544 -0.3%
Ether (ETH): $3,227 +0.7%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin did a little better on Thursday after tumbling the previous day but still fell slightly, following a downward trend for much of the week. Ether fared slightly better, but other major altcoins were mixed.
Bitcoin, the largest crypto by market cap, was recently trading at about $43,500, about where it stood 24 hours earlier and well off the $47,000 threshold it crossed a week ago as investors continued to digest the U.S. central bank's new hawkish intensity and the ongoing swirl of economic events stemming increasingly from Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
""Bitcoin is struggling for direction as Wall Street grows cautious over how aggressive the [Federal Reserve] will be with tightening of monetary policy,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst Americas Edward Moya wrote in an email.
SOL and AVAX were recently up about 2% and 3%, respectively after spending parts of Thursday in the red. Terra's luna (LUNA) was recently down over 4%. The meme coins DOGE and SHIB were both roughly flat. Outside the CoinDesk top 20, CAKE rose over 6% at one point.
Crypto prices veered slightly from the performance of major equity markets, which were in the green, albeit barely. The tech-focused Nasdaq was up less than a tenth of a percentage point.
The U.S. central bank has signaled powerfully as a body, and by individual governors, over the past week that it would ratchet up its efforts to tame inflation, which has reached nearly 8%, a four-decade high.
On Thursday, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard told reporters after a speech that the Fed would have ""to move forthrightly in order to get the policy rate up to the right level to deal with inflation that we’ve got in front of us."" His remarks followed two days after Fed Governor Lael Brainard, who had been reluctant to abandon the Fed's dovish posture of recent years, suggested the Fed might increase interest rates at a faster pace.
Other winds during the day blew more favorably for digital assets. Addressing crypto In a speech for the first time, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said that a digital dollar could become a ""trusted money comparable to physical cash.""
Speaking to attendees at an American University event, Yellen highlighted the differing perceptions about crypto, saying that’s often the case with “transformative” technology. “Some proponents speak as if the technology is so radically and beneficially transformative that the government should step back completely and let innovation take its course,” she said. “On the other hand, skeptics see limited, if any, value in this technology and associated products and advocate that the government take a much more restrictive approach.”
Meanwhile, European and U.S. lawmakers who have criticized Russia's unprovoked attack on Ukraine were considering and pushing forward on new economic sanctions. They included a European Union ban on Russian coal and a U.S. House vote to remove Russia's favored trade status and a halt to imports of energy products.
Still, Oanda's Moya was cautiously optimistic about bitcoin's near-term performance.
""Bitcoin has held up nicely given the recent bond market sell-off, but it could struggle if that move continues,"" he said. ""Bitcoin's long-term outlook remains bullish but if risk aversion runs wild it could be vulnerable to a drop towards the $38,000 level.""
S&P 500: 4,500 +0.4%
DJIA: 34,583 +0.2%
Nasdaq: 13,897 +.06%
Gold: $1,931 +0.3%
Bitcoin set to close week underperforming major asian stock indices
Concerns over how a hawkish Fed will react to inflation, the continuing war in Ukraine and China’s COVID-19 crisis sent Asian markets tumbling this week, and bitcoin with them.
The world’s largest digital asset is set to end the week down 8%, underperforming major indices in Asia including the Nikkei 225, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index, the Hang Seng index of Hong Kong-listed China Stocks, as well as the S&P 500.
Analysts have pegged uncertainty, anchored by anticipation of the latest Fed minutes, as a reason for the week-long sink. The Fed now has a mandate to tame inflation, but the question is how tolerant will it be of the economy dipping into a recession.
In February, a number of analysts who previously spoke with CoinDesk said the Fed would back off tighter monetary policy if the economy cools too much, too quickly and stocks tank. These observers believed the Fed could tolerate about a 20%-30% drop in equity prices.
At the time, the central bank seemed inclined to raise interest rates in small 0.25 increments and by just a percentage point over the rest of 2022, a “trivial” amount one analyst said, with inflation running at 7% at the time.
Now, with inflation surging closer to 8% and the macroeconomic environment increasingly uncertain because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Fed has indicated it may be more aggressive in its anti-inflation measures.
How its approach affects crypto is uncertain for the long term. For now, investors seem more risk-averse, which is bad news for bitcoin.
Bitcoin’s slump on Fed hawkishness after a brief rally was felt throughout the broader crypto ecosystem as traders who bought into tokens including DOGE and SOL, which tend to rise and fall in sync with bitcoin, got rekt in a massive liquidation wave with over $400 million lost.
With bitcoin’s continued correlation to the S&P 500, the big question on traders’ mind in Asia is what will break this trend? When will bitcoin rise again?
Galaxy’s Mike Novogratz thinks it’s all on the shoulders of the Fed. Novogratz still believes bitcoin will eventually hit $500,000 and then $1 million, but it's going to be in retreat until the Fed takes its hands off the economy when it eventually slows down.
Then, “Bitcoin goes to the moon,” Novogratz said.
Bitcoin Stabilizes at $43K Support; Resistance at $45K-$48K
Bitcoin (BTC) is stabilizing after a near-10% drop from the $48,000 resistance level earlier this week. The cryptocurrency is holding support above $43,000 and is roughly flat over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on intraday charts are rising from oversold levels, which could keep short-term buyers active into the Asia trading day. On the daily chart, however, the RSI is neutral with negative momentum, suggesting range-bound price action could persist for a few more days.
BTC will need to make a decisive move above above $45,000 in order to yield upside price targets, initially toward $50,966. For now, the price recovery from the January low at $32,933 remains intact, especially given the positive momentum reading on the weekly chart.
Still, indicators on the monthly chart suggest upside is limited for BTC over the intermediate term. That means BTC will need to maintain stronger support above $37,560 to keep the three-month uptrend of higher price lows stable. A decisive break below that level could invalidate the recovery phase.
The chart below shows key levels to manage short-term risk, per the DeMARK indicators, available on Symbolik.
Bitcoin 2022 conference Miami
Portland Ethereum Hackathon
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia financial stability review
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan consumer confidence index (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Yellen’s First Speech on Digital Assets, Miami Mayor on MiamiCoin and Bitcoin Capital Ambition and More
Miami is charging ahead with its bitcoin capital ambitions as it unveils a laser-eyed charging bull during the Bitcoin 2022 conference this week. Mayor Francis Suarez joined ""First Mover"" to explain his crypto projects for the city, and what's going on with MiamiCoin. Plus, insights on the potential impact of Janet Yellen's speech on digital assets from Martin Leinweber of MV Index Solutions and more Miami bitcoin conference news from John Bartleman of TradeStation.
Blockchain-Exposed Stocks Could Show Massive Sales Growth Despite Recent Underperformance, Goldman Says: Bitcoin has become more correlated with equity index returns in recent months, the bank’s analysts said.
HBAR Foundation Commits $250M to Drawing Metaverse Apps to Hedera: The announcement follows a $155 million DeFi fund launched at the end of March.
Dogecoin, Solana Traders Nurse Big Losses as Cryptos See $400M in Liquidations: Wednesday's figures were the third-highest liquidation losses of this year.
Cosmos-Based Juno Blockchain Pushed Offline in Apparent Attack: A malicious smart contract has put the network out of commission for over 24 hours and comes less than a month after a controversial governance vote.
Tom Brady’s Autograph, ESPN Launch Network’s First NFT Collection: The collection will feature images of the likely Hall of Fame quarterback and coincide with the release of a docuseries on Brady’s career.
Waves Founder Blames Short Sellers for Its Woes. Here's Why That's a Red Flag: To longtime finance observers, blaming shorts often looks like the last desperate deflection of a project in denial about its failures.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is a Rebase/Elastic Token?
Other voices: Miami’s crypto craze on full display at bitcoin conference (ABC News)
""It isn’t often you’d hear tech companies described as dinosaurs, but they are indeed now just that and need to evolve or risk being relegated to an era past. The largest tech giants, including Amazon, Google and Meta Platforms, have become too accustomed to the outdated business models of ad monetization, an industry that is growing 15.7% annually. Ad tech is still an appealing opportunity, but blockchain has a much higher growth potential."" (Rockaway Blockchain Fund Chief Investment Officer Dusan Kovacic) ... “With this new business structure, Tennessee will be a beacon for blockchain investment, new jobs and investment,” [Powell] says. “Just as Delaware became a hub for traditional LLCs or South Dakota for credit card companies.” (Tennessee state representative Jason Powell, quoted in the Nashville Scene) ... ""Credit rating agencies have indicated that payments in a currency different from the one the debt was sold in would count as a default once the grace period expired. Russia’s debt payments that were due on Monday have a 30-day grace period and had no provision for repayment in any currency other than dollars. It would be Russia’s first default on foreign currency debt in more than a century."" (The New York Times)"
51,346,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/08/near-token-has-doubled-in-4-weeks-heres-why/,NEAR Token Has Doubled in 4 Weeks; Here's Why,Venture capitalists’ vote of confidence and stablecoin rumors push the NEAR token higher.,2022-04-08,"NEAR, the cryptocurrency powering layer 1 blockchain Near, has entered the crypto market's historically bullish second quarter with a bang.
The token has doubled to $20 in four weeks, significantly outperforming major coins: bitcoin gained 15% and ether 30% in the same period. Furthermore, NEAR tops the list of biggest gainers with market values of at least $1 billion, according to data source Messari.
Experts said several developments, including the flood of venture capital (VC) money into the Near protocol, appear to have revved up interest in the cryptocurrency.
""Recent funding rounds show VCs have high conviction in the blockchain,"" CK Cheung, an investment analyst at DeFiance Capital, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat.
Earlier this week, the protocol raised $350 million in a round led by hedge fund Tiger Global to accelerate the decentralization of the NEAR ecosystem. In January, Near raised $150 million from major crypto investment firms. Last month, Trisolaris, a decentralized exchange on the Near protocol, announced a strategic investment worth $4.5 million from Electric Capital with participation from Jump Crypto, Dragonfly Capital, Leminscap and Ethereal Ventures.
The protocol, created by former Microsoft (MSFT) employee Alexander Skidanov and developer Ilya Polosukhin, is a decentralized programmable blockchain that uses a proof-of-stake consensus mechanism. In December, it introduced sharding to boost transaction capacity and speeds and to lower overall costs.
""NEAR has built technology to enable transactions that are fast (~1 second), quick to finality (~1-2 seconds), cheap (less than a penny), and secure,"" Messari's Tom Dunleavy said in a research post published last month.
So, Near appears ahead of Ethereum, the world's largest smart-contract blockchain, which has yet to complete its transition to a proof-of-stake mechanism. ""NEAR seems like the Ethereum 2 roadmap implemented,"" angel investor Naval Ravikant said during a discussion about layer 1, or base, protocols in January.
According to Rudy Chen, an analyst at crypto ratings firm TokenInsight, NEAR is one of the most sought-after tokens.
""NEAR's rally has several reasons. First, the gushing VC money and, second, many key opinion leaders and influencers are holding NEAR right now and tweeting about the same,"" Chen said.
""Time for the big reveal ... DCG's new third-largest crypto holding is ... NEAR,"" Barry Silbert, co-founder and CEO of CoinDesk's parent company Digital Currency Group tweeted Thursday. Messari's research shows NEAR was one of the most commonly owned crypto assets in fourth-quarter 2021.
According to Zoran Kole, founder of popular Telegram group Crypto Insiders, Near's developer growth statistics are equally impressive. ""They have one of the fastest growing ecosystems with a 4x growth of total developers over the last two years. This high developer growth rate is a key indicator that adoption and usage of the protocol will continue into the near future,"" Kole wrote in a blog post published Thursday.
Talk about the impending launch on the protocol of a stablecoin offering a double-digit annual percentage yield (APY) could also be driving investor interest in the cryptocurrency, Chen added.
On Thursday, Crypto Insiders' Kole revealed April 20 as the possible launch date of the algorithmic stablecoin called USN. The high yield will rival the near 20% APY offered by programmable blockchain Terra's dollar-pegged stablecoin UST and would be one of the highest in the industry.
""They will offer an extremely attractive ~20% APR [annual percentage rate], which will ignite DeFi capital rotation into the Near ecosystem, siphoning the total value locked from other alternative layer-one protocols,"" Kole said in a Substack post. ""This will lead to a comparison of Near to Terra (LUNA) as the narrative for attractive stablecoin yields proliferates.""
Stablecoins, or cryptocurrencies with values fixed to an external reference like the U.S. dollar, help users avoid the price volatility associated with other cryptocurrencies. Stablecoins have become the flavor of the season, thanks to Luna Foundation Guard's decision to accumulate bitcoin as reserve for UST. Frax announced a similar move early Friday."
52,288,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/04/08/frax-stablecoin-backing-to-feature-layer-1-tokens-real-world-loans/,"Frax Stablecoin Backing to Feature Layer 1 Tokens, Real-World Loans",Using real assets will allow Frax’s products to operate as intended even in a bear market.,2022-04-08,"Algorithmic stablecoin platform Frax Finance plans to expand the basket of assets that back its FRAX stablecoin by adding other cryptocurrencies, interest-generating tokens and traditional asset loans to the mix.
The Frax protocol is a two-token system comprising the stablecoin and a governance token, Frax shares (FXS). FRAX maintains a peg to the U.S. dollar by being partially collateralized by USD coin (USDC) alongside periodically buying and selling FXS to maintain its market capitalization.
That is set to change.
""FRAX plans to buy native tokens of layer 1 blockchains that support the FRAX stablecoin to be used as reserve collateral,” founder Sam Kazemian said in a message to CoinDesk. “As FRAX is on multiple blockchains, we are taking a multichain approach in proportion to demand across the chains for FRAX.”
The move will facilitate more FRAX based transactions on those blockchains and create greater demand for their layer 1 tokens, Kazemian said. Layer 1, or base, tokens are the native assets of individual blockchains, such as Ethereum, Avalanche, or Terra.
FRAX is most dominant on Ethereum at writing time, with over $2.2 billion worth of value locked. It is present on several other blockchains, meaning the company is likely to buy Avalanche’s AVAX, Binance Chain’s BNB, Fantom’s FTM and Solana’s SOL in the coming months to back the FRAX that circulates on those chains.
In addition, FRAX will be “backed by an extremely diverse range of crypto assets,” Kazemian pointed out. Some will generate cash flow while others will be on-chain loans that accumulate interest.
That will help protect against a change in the dynamics of the broader market, such as a drop in the bitcoin price that could hit other tokens and affect Frax’s reserves.
Loans held outside of crypto protocols could also act as a hedge against crypto market downturns.
“We are also exploring real-world asset loans so that there is cash flow countercyclically from crypto bear markets,” Kazemian said. “FRAX closely resembles a central bank which needs a balance sheet that is on aggregate valuable under all market conditions.""
Frax's approach differs from the one adopted by the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a non-profit that started buying billions of dollars worth of bitcoin (BTC) in March as a reserve backing for UST stablecoins, one of the two assets of the Terra protocol.
They aren’t competing, however. Terra and Frax teamed up last week to create the “4pool,” a liquidity pool on stablecoin swap service Curve Finance. The pool is composed of two algorithmic stablecoins, UST and FRAX, and two centralized stablecoins, USDC and USDT, and aims to become the most-liquid offering for traders on Curve.
Curve is the biggest decentralized finance platform on Ethereum, with over $21 billion in value locked. At the time of this writing, “tricrypto2” was the largest Ethereum-based pool on Curve by value locked, holding more than $78 million of USDT, wrapped bitcoin and wrapped ether.
UPDATE (April 8, 8:51 UTC): Corrects spelling of Kazemian."
53,349,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/10/first-mover-asia-whats-in-hsbcs-metaverse-fund-for-hong-kong-singapore-private-banking-clients-bitcoin-declines/,"First Mover Asia: What’s in HSBC’s Metaverse Fund for Hong Kong, Singapore Private Banking Clients?; Bitcoin Declines","The financial services giant has been short on specifics, and the mystery underscores the difficulties in defining what belongs in such products; ether also falls.",2022-04-10,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and ether continue falling; other major cryptos are mixed.
Insights: The holdings of HSBC's Metaverse Fund for Hong Kong and Singapore private banking clients remain unclear, underscoring a fundamental concern about such products.
Technician's take: The current pullback appears to be temporary ahead of seasonal strength.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $42,330 -0.4%
Ether (ETH): $3,226 -0.5%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin, ether lie flat
Bitcoin spent much of its weekend in the doldrums.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization ignored a brief Sunday surge to settle below $42,500 level where it ended Friday amid growing economic uncertainty tied to Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and looming interest rate hikes by the U.S. central bank. The crypto had started the week trading near $47,000 after a late March jump, fueled by hopefulness about a sooner-than-later end to the Ukraine conflict.
""While some relief came over the weekend, volumes have been low and until a major push drives the price above $48K, BTC is likely to remain under pressure and struggle to old $40K in the coming weeks,"" said Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager Bitbull in an email to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $42,300 down slightly over the past 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, followed a similar weekend pattern and was also off a fraction at about $3,200. Other major cryptos were mixed. AXS and Terra's LUNA token had recently fallen about 1.5% and 2%, respectively. But popular meme token DOGE was up about 5%. Trading was light.
Cryptos' performance lately has largely dovetailed with major equity markets, which have also fallen. The tech-focused Nasdaq closed Friday trading down over a percentage point. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average were also off as investors continued to process an historic swirl of events that could send the global economy into recession.
Over the weekend, Ukraine simultaneously girded for a fresh Russian offensive on cities in the southeastern part of the country while attempting to evacuate civilians, whom Russian forces have been targeting. E.U. countries continued to discuss banning Russian oil and gas, although the continent's largest economy, Germany, has opposed the measure, saying that it would send shockwaves through its economy. The price of Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of energy pricing trends, continued hovering well over $100 per barrel, up over 40% from the start of the year.
In its April 8 weekly review of global economic trends, First Republic Bank said that ""the macroeconomic backdrop is likely to deteriorate before it improves.""
The bank noted that energy price increases stemming from the invasion, had ""affected prices in almost all sectors of the economy,"" and did not expect U.S. President Joe Biden recent decision to release oil from the U.S.'s strategic reserve ""to alleviate high energy prices.""
""Given rising costs and geopolitical conflict, we believe inflation will rise higher in upcoming months,"" the bank wrote.
BitBull's DiPasquale said that wider concerns could weigh down cryptos well below the $40,000 threshold. ""We should see a reaction around $37K and $32K, but BTC is in need of a catalyst to sustain any bullish momentum ahead of macro concerns, such as more interest rate hikes and monetary policy changes.""
S&P 500: 4,488 -0.2%
DJIA: 34,721 -0.4%
Nasdaq: 13,711 -1.3%
Gold: $1,946 0.6%
The holdings of HSBC's Metaverse Fund remain a mystery
Last week HSBC (HSBC) announced a Metaverse Fund for its private banking clients in Hong Kong and Singapore. To the outsider, this has all the makings of a FOMO narrative: accredited investors only, investors in Hong Kong and Singapore only – where more exciting investment opportunities are available – and finally the metaverse, which Citi claims will be a $13 trillion opportunity by 2030.
But what exactly is this fund? What does it hold? Does anyone know? The official response from HSBC is boilerplate and the company declined to go into specifics. “The portfolio is actively managed and focuses on investing in companies within the metaverse ecosystem, with five key segments, namely Infrastructure, Computing, Virtualization, Experience and Discovery, and Human Interface.”
The fund, which is said to be based in London, targets investors in Hong Kong and Singapore, but there doesn’t seem to be a registration with regulators yet (CoinDesk checked FCA, MAS, and SFC directories), which suggests the fund is still in development and hasn’t been officially listed. So we’re left guessing what’s inside it.
Prior metaverse funds have been a mixture of gaming and tech companies.
This isn’t necessarily a bad thing. Rather, it's simply a product of what the metaverse is: gaming and tech. At its core, the metaverse is a gaming experience, so the question remains why you would need a specific fund for this.
After all, the same companies that power gaming experiences, like Unity and Unreal, which make game engines, or EA and Activision, which make the games themselves, would have a similar place and weight in a pure gaming fund.
In fact, if you compare a gaming fund to a metaverse fund they are nearly the same.
Every few years investors and the tech industry must invent new terms, and metaverse seems to be one of them. It’s simply gaming, rebranded. The dream of an interoperable gaming world bound together by non-fungible tokens (NFT) and blockchain, such as in Ready Player One, isn’t going to happen as intellectual property (IP) rights holders like Nintendo would get nervous about what might happen if their characters crossed over to different gaming worlds and beyond their control .(It could be vulgar.)
If you want to find a real metaverse, it would be an online gaming service like Xbox Live or Steam, which have been around for 20 years. Your digital identity is portable between games; online peers can see your name and scorecard. But that’s it. Each game is a separate world – nothing is transposable.
Gaming is a huge market, accelerated by stay-at-home orders during the coronavirus pandemic. This is the real $13 trillion opportunity.
The “metaverse” as it exists for the crypto industry? Not so much.
Remember, major crypto metaverse platforms like The Sandbox or Decentraland have an active user base counted in the hundreds or low thousands. The tokens affiliated with the platforms have had major year-to-date losses. Would you even want to hold them?
Given that HSBC’s fund is only open to accredited investors, one might expect its contents to be more exciting. The fund is unlikely to hold tokens directly, and if it did, such a holding would be earth-shattering. HSBC brass has previously declined to allow its wealthiest clients to get exposure to digital assets, unlike other banks.
There are a few privately held gaming companies out there, including Valve, which is behind the Steam platform, but this is a well-established firm, not a startup; it’s unlikely that HSBC would need to close off the fund to anyone but accredited investors.
So what is inside this fund? Is it just a collection of publicly listed gaming and technology companies wrapped behind the term ""metaverse"" and the allure of being restricted to accredited investors only?
Bitcoin Stalls Below $48K Resistance; Support at $40K-$43K
Bitcoin (BTC) is stuck in a tight range, albeit with occasional price swings. The cryptocurrency is approaching a support zone between $40,000 and $43,000, which could stabilize the pullback.
Resistance at $48,000 and $50,000 have capped price rallies over the past four months, which means sellers are in control. Meanwhile, there has been a significant loss of downside momentum, suggesting that buyers could remain active at lower support levels.
On the weekly chart, the relative strength index (RSI) dipped below the 50 neutral level. That reflects a slight loss of upside momentum since BTC's breakout above $40,000 on March 28.
Still, the current pullback appears to be temporary, similar to what occurred in September of last year. This time, however, speculative assets such as stocks and cryptos are entering a seasonally strong period in April and May, which could attract short-term buyers.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda speech
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China consumer price index (MoM/YoY March)
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China producer price index (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Community Reacts to Yellen’s First Crypto Speech, Lessons Learned From Ronin Network’s $625M Exploit
Following what may be the largest DeFi exploit in history, Sky Mavis raised $150 million in a round led by Binance to reimburse the victims. Sky Mavis Chief Operating oficer and co-founder Aleksander Larsen discussed the case and the launch of a new project. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen called for the same rules for traditional financial system to be applied to the crypto industry. Chen Arad of Solidus Labs shared his take. Plus, Don Kaufman of TheoTrade, provided crypto market analysis.
Ethereum Gas Usage Rose in March as Ether Ran to $3.5K: ERC-20 token generation last month was 125% above February's levels, even as developers continue to build new projects on other blockchains.
Top US Bank Watchdog Warns of Stablecoins' 'Lack of Interoperability': The OCC's acting chief argues the variation across tokens could create walled gardens.
A Censorship-Resistant Inflation Index Is Being Built on Chainlink: Truflation currently measures a 13.3% inflation rate, as opposed to the 7.9% measured by the Consumer Price Index in March.
How the Play-to-Earn Industry Can Rebuild Better After the Ronin Attack: Now is the time for Axie Infinity leadership and solidarity from the competitive crypto gaming industry, CoinDesk columnist Leah Callon-Butler writes.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Other voices: Why Ethereum Could Be a Big Winner With Shiba Inu's Metaverse (Motley Fool)
""Almost immediately after it was unveiled outside the Miami Beach Convention Center on Monday, kicking off the first day of the global Bitcoin 2022 conference, observers noted the robotic totem with hooves and horns lacked that one crucial anatomical detail. Its creator, Furio Tedeschi, hadn’t intended for the bull to be a steer."" (CoinDesk Assistant Opinion Editor Daniel Kuhn) ... ""Credit where it’s due, the Journal does add some depth to the story, particularly by talking to meme coin traders directly. But the report reaches the same conclusion that we did last month: “Nearly all analysts agree that participation [in meme coin trading] is essentially a form of gambling.” (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""The absence of produce from [Ukraine, under attack by Russia] is also lifting the prices of commodities produced elsewhere as countries and companies seek alternatives to their usual supplies. Higher grain prices in particular also threaten a knock-on impact on beef and other meat as producers rely heavily on grain to feed livestock and poultry. The higher costs mean some of the largest food companies in the U.S. will likely continue to raise prices on consumers for products from cereal to deli meat, analysts say."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Yet any swift decisions on oil sanctions face major political obstacles. With EU member states split on the issue, Brussels officials say there will be no decisions on Monday and that even the presentation of specific proposals could be weeks away. Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, is leading the opposition to sanctioning imports of Russian oil or gas, and has so far resisted calls from Eastern European countries such as Poland for stronger energy sanctions."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
54,55,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/11/terras-luna-leads-slide-in-majors-as-ether-nears-3k/,Terra’s LUNA Leads Slide in Majors as Ether Nears $3K,Crypto markets slid on Monday amid a weak trading session in Asia and Europe in broader markets.,2022-04-11,"Crypto markets slid 2.6% in the past 24 hours amid renewed global recession fears, data shows. Stocks in Europe and Asia inched lower, while reports of potential global supply chain disruptions further gripped markets as China’s renewed lockdowns extended to another week.
In Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index ended the day 3% lower, while Shanghai Composite took a 2.61% loss. Over in Europe, Germany’s DAX slid 0.31% and the pan-European stock index Stoxx 600 lost 0.20%. Traders started to price in bearish movement in the US as pre-market futures for Nasdaq dropped 0.67%, while the S&P 500 fell 0.31%.
Bearish sentiment in global markets spread to crypto markets. Terra’s LUNA, Avalanche’s AVAX, and ether (ETH) saw the biggest declines in the past 24 hours outside of bitcoin (BTC) in the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization. In European morning hours, ether dropped to just over a major support level at $3,000, losing which could see the asset slide further to the $2,700 mark.
LUNA fell 8% even as Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) added $173 million in bitcoin to its wallet over the weekend, bringing its total holdings to 40,000 bitcoin, as reported. The LFG is a newly formed nonprofit that aims to maintain the Terra ecosystem by building a $10 billion reserve in bitcoin for backing the UST, a stablecoin issued by Terra, one of LFG’s main backers.
LUNA dropped to a previous support level at $85 nearly a week after setting lifetime highs of $120, price charts show. Losing current levels could see it drop further down to the $70 mark, where the next major support exists.
Crypto market capitalization fell to just over $2 trillion, dropping some $260 billion since last week’s $2.27 trillion figure. Bitcoin fell to $41,300 in European morning hours, a 10% decline since last week’s $48,100 mark, a three-month high.
Some analysts said recent price action proved the crypto market’s correlation with stocks was rising.
“The crypto market is again increasing its correlation with the dynamics of stocks, or rather, it is guided by the high-tech Nasdaq index,” explained Alex Kuptsikevich, financial analyst at FxPro, in an email to CoinDesk. “This relationship is easily explained by the fact that in both cases, investors are betting on a progressive idea.”
Metrics from earlier this month showed bitcoin ended the first quarter of 2022 trading at a correlation of 0.9 with S&P, where 1 suggests perfect correlation and -1 is perfectly inverted. The 90-day correlation between bitcoin and S&P previously set a 17-month high in March."
55,350,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/11/first-mover-asia-mark-karpeles-ungox-wants-to-help-investors-assess-the-risks-of-crypto-products-bitcoin-drops-below-40k/,First Mover Asia: Mark Karpeles’ UnGox Wants to Help Investors Assess the Risks of Crypto Products; Bitcoin Drops Below $40K,The CEO of the infamous Mt. Gox crypto exchange is re-entering the industry with a rating service. But is he in touch with the latest developments?; ether also falls.,2022-04-11,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos continued their recent dive amid growing concerns about inflation and recession.
Insights: Former Mt. Gox CEO tries to reinvent himself with the ratings platform UnGox.
Technician's take: BTC is not yet oversold and is roughly two days away from a pause in selling pressure.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $39,855 -5.4%
Ether (ETH): $3,003 -6.8%
Top Gainers
Top Losers
Bitcoin and other major cryptos plunge
Down, down, bitcoin is going down. Where it stops ... that's the question.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization continued its plunge of the past two weeks on Monday as investors kept backing off speculative assets amid ongoing concerns about inflation and a possible global recession.
Bitcoin recently fell below $40,000, a more than 5.4% drop over the past 24 hours and down from highs at the end of March above $47,000. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading slightly over $3,000 – a more than 6% decline over the same period – after dropping below this threshold earlier in the day for the first time since the middle of last month. Other major altcoins fared even worse, with Terra's LUNA token, SOL and ADA all in the red by double digits. Meme coins DOGE and SHIB also were beaten down significantly. Trading was light.
Crypto market performance trailed equity markets, although those were off as well with the tech-focused Nasdaq down 2.1% and the S&P 500 off 1.6% as investors awaited the Tuesday release of the Consumer Price Index, which is widely expected to show inflation worsening in March.
In an email to CoinDesk, FxPro Senior Financial Analyst Alex Kuptsikevich highlighted an ""increasing correlation"" between crypto markets and stocks, particularly with the Nasdaq index. ""This relationship is easily explained by the fact that in both cases, investors are betting on a progressive idea and not on a stable income,"" he wrote.
Russia's invasion of neighboring Ukraine has disrupted supply chains and increased energy costs that were already spiraling prior to the conflict. On Monday, Russian forces continued to mass for an attack in the eastern region of Donbas in an attempt to link the area to the Crimean peninsula on the Black Sea. Meanwhile, France's third largest bank, Société Générale, became the latest major company to stop doing business in Russia, as European Union countries and others opposed to Russia's aggression continued to mull additional economic sanctions.
Noting the decline in bitcoin's 50-day moving average to near $42K, Kuptsikevich wrote that the crypto could see worse days ahead. ""Fixing below this level may open a direct path to the area of March lows near $38K,"" he said.
S&P 500: 4,412 -1.6%
DJIA: 34,348 -1.1%
Nasdaq: 13,411 -2.1%
Gold: $1,954 +0.4
Mark Karpeles tries to reinvent himself with UnGox
Eight years later, Mark Karpeles, the CEO of infamous failed bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox – its hack the genesis of crypto’s history of cyber thieves and epic collapses – is trying to make amends for the past.
Karpeles, who received a suspended sentence for manipulating exchange data but was acquitted on the most serious charges of embezzlement and breach of trust – an impressive feat considering Japanese courts’ 99% conviction rate – wants to build the tools to allow investors to assess the risks of crypto products. But this isn’t why he’s an unlikely figure to establish a ratings service, which he is calling UnGox.
In a speech at Tokyo's Foreign Correspondents' Club, he also came across as out of touch with current crypto trends. When Mt. Gox was at its prime there was no Vitalik Buterin or decentralized finance (DeFi). Still, he's determined.
“Why me? I went through everything that could go wrong when running an exchange,” Karpeles said during his speech. “When running Mt. Gox I did due diligence on a number of different crypto exchanges. We don’t want people to get ‘Goxed’ anymore.”
Karpeles said UnGox would not have an S&P or Moody’s business model where the issuer buys the review. Instead, it will be available for free online, with more granular data available via a monthly subscription. The era in which UnGox will launch is much different than when Karpeles exited the crypto industry. In the halcyon days of 2014, there was bitcoin (BTC) , litecoin (LTC) and a few other altcoins, and DeFi had not yet arrived.
When asked at the FCC about restarting in the crypto world in a different era, Karpeles said he can navigate the space. Running a crypto exchange would be a no-go, given his history, but he feels that with hacks and rugpulls so common, a ratings agency is what the industry needs.
So how would he approach a DeFi project to assess if it’s a scam? Well, first, he says, would be if the team is hiding behind a pseudonym or operating in plain sight. A second would be to look at the promised yield.
A yield of “50% a month. … I don’t have to look further to say it’s a scam,” he said.
Certainly, in Karpeles’ era these would have been the tell-tale signs of fraud. But in the time since, it is now somewhat normalized.
DeFi projects whose executives are represented by avatars and handles get top-tier venture capital money. It’s not necessary to be doxxed, or even have a traditional corporate structure as decentralized administrative organizations (DAO), and their tokens are perfectly fine, too. Liquidity Provider tokens and yield farming can earn 50% or more APY a month; there are hundreds of millions of dollars being yield farmed to provide liquidity for decentralized exchanges (DEX).
Karpeles is undoubtedly a quick learner, but he also seems to be stuck in a time capsule. CoinGecko and CoinMarketCap, data aggregators that didn’t exist during the Mt. Gox era, already provide a ratings service that scores exchanges from 1-10.
For the DeFi world, dozens of auditing platforms already exist and many don’t have the fatal flaw of S&P or Moody’s that allow for ratings to be suppressed. Certik has already audited over 1,800 DeFi projects and there are other similar portals out there.
While Karpeles had everything that can go wrong happen to him, these were the trials and tribulations of a different time. Having lessons learned from the fall of Mt. Gox as the anchor of your CV might not be as strong as he thinks.
He does seem to have a fan in journalist Jake Adelstein, of Tokyo Vice fame, who documented the fall of Mt. Gox and Karpeles’ struggle with Japan’s vicious prosecutor, and first wrote about Karpeles’ plans for UnGoxed.
“As human beings, we learn from our mistakes,” Adelstein, a self-described non-expert in crypto, said during the FCC event. “Nobody better to rate cryptocurrency as he’s dealt with all the problems.”
Bitcoin Approaches Support Zone at $37K-$40K
Bitcoin (BTC) is extending its pullback that began on March 28 after buyers failed to break above the $48,000 resistance level.
The cryptocurrency is not yet oversold, although lower support at $37,500 and $40,000 could stabilize the down move.
BTC was down as much as 7% over the past 24 hours. Countertrend signals, however, are roughly two days away from an inversion (selling exhaustion), per the DeMARK indicators.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is approaching oversold levels, which could pause the current price drop. Still, oversold readings could persist for a few weeks, similar to what occurred earlier this year.
On the weekly chart, momentum signals are still positive. That means BTC's recovery from January lows remains intact, so long as buyers can maintain support above $37,500.
Despite short-term price rises, further upside beyond $50,000 could be challenging given negative momentum signals on the monthly chart, similar to what occurred during the 2018 crypto bear market.
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (1:30 a.m. UTC): National Australia Bank's business conditions (March)
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT (1:30 a.m. UTC): National Australia Bank's business confidence (March)
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): Japan machine tool orders (YoY March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
BTC Slips Below $42K Amid Rising Macros Risks, Bolt Buys Wyre in Largest Non-SPAC Crypto Deal to Date and More
Bitcoin dipped below $42,000 as traditional investors refused to follow LFG's lead amid rising macro risks. Kapil Rathi of CrossTower joined ""First Mover"" and provided his crypto markets analysis. Payments company Bolt is buying crypto startup Wyre for $1.5 billion in the largest non-SPAC deal of the industry so far. Bolt CEO Maju Kuruvilla and Wyre CEO & co-founder Ioannis Giannaros shared details of this acquisition and future plans. Plus, David Kemmerer of CoinLedger provided crypto tax insights.
Crypto Trading Volumes in India Collapse 10 Days After New Tax: Crebaco: The volume on WazirX, the country's largest exchange, has plunged by 72%.
Hong Kong’s OneDegree to Offer Insurance for Digital Assets With Munich Re: Clients will be able to get reinsurance for crypto.
Multiple Indian Official Twitter Accounts Hacked, NFT Content Posted: Accounts of a high-profile state chief minister, political parties and government institutions were compromised.
Luna Foundation Holds Almost 40,000 BTC After Weekend Purchase: Luna Foundation Guard bought $173 million worth of bitcoin over the weekend, but bitcoin is down 2%.
Bitcoin 2022 Miami: Mining Gets Its Moment Under the Sun: The mining industry took up plenty of space and mindshare at Bitcoin 2022 in Miami, with one participant calling it “a real deal center.”
Ethereum's First Mainnet Shadow Fork Goes Live as Move to PoS Continues: The shadow fork will stress test developers' assumptions on existing testnets and the mainnet.
GOP Policy Arm Releases Paper Exploring Benefits, Risks of Crypto: The paper signals that U.S. Senate Republicans are inching toward a more unified approach to crypto regulation.
No, DeFi Is Not a Repeat of the 2008 Crisis: Decentralized finance does not equal shadow banking and ""too big to fail.""
Today's crypto explainer: Can Cryptocurrency Replace Loyalty Points?
Other voices: Crypto Industry Helps Write, and Pass, Its Own Agenda in State Capitols (The New York Times)
""Elon [Musk] has decided not to join our board. I sent a brief note to the company, sharing with you all here."" (Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal) ... Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal this month on average put the probability of the economy being in recession sometime in the next 12 months at 28%, up from 18% in January and just 13% a year ago. 'Risk of a recession is rising due to the series of supply shocks cascading throughout the economy as the [Federal Reserve] lifts rates to address inflation,” said Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US LLP.'"" (The Wall Street Journal) ... The crypto world’s best developers may not find it easy to fit in the biggest banks. Integrating on-chain and off-chain services, however, will present opportunities for differentiation. Loans secured with more stable off-chain assets like homes can be bigger and cheaper and lower risk than purely on-chain offerings. The closer banks get to their competitive strengths, the more likely they are to be successful. (EY Blockchain Leader Paul Brody for CoinDesk)"
56,113,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/14/terraform-labs-gifts-820m-in-tokens-to-luna-foundation-guard/,Terraform Labs Gives $820M in LUNA Tokens to Luna Foundation Guard,LFG's reserves now stand at about $2.4 billion.,2022-04-14,"Terraform Labs, the organization behind the UST algorithmic stablecoin (UST) and its LUNA token, gave 10 million LUNA tokens worth $820 million to Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), the nonprofit that is building up bitcoin (BTC) reserves for UST, The Block reported.
Terraform Labs transferred the tokens to a wallet connected to Luna Foundation Guard on Thursday, Terra Finder's publicly accessible blockchain transaction portal shows. Both Terra's official Twitter handle and the transaction details tagged the transfer as a ""gift"" to LFG.
Led by Do Kwon, Terraform Labs is the South Korea-based firm behind the TerraUSD blockchain protocol that hosts UST – the largest algorithmic stablecoin with a market capitalization of $17 billion – and its token pair LUNA.
Singapore-based Luna Foundation Guard was created to support the Terra ecosystem with development grants and to build up a reserve for UST to help maintain its peg. Do Kwon is a member of LFG's council.
The transfer helps prop up LFG's reserves, which now stands at $2.43 billion, according to a data tracker shared by LFG's official Twitter handle, with 69.8% of the reserves being in bitcoin.
The data tracker shows that LFG holds 2.25 million LUNA tokens which is fewer than the 10 million transferred. Terra Finder shows that 7.8 million LUNA token were forwarded to another wallet. Before the transfer, LFG's holding of LUNA stood at 50,000, according to a Twitter post that tracks LFG's reserve and its changes.
When the transaction was executed, Terra's LUNA was trading at $88. It has since slid more than 6% since to $82.
A Terraform Labs representative didn't immediately return a request for comment.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
UPDATE (5:36 UTC): added detail about the part of the gift that was forwarded."
57,183,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/17/first-mover-asia-terra-is-2022s-version-of-corporate-bitcoin-buying-cryptos-hold-steady-in-weekend-trading/,First Mover Asia: Terra Is 2022’s Version of Corporate Bitcoin Buying; Cryptos Hold Steady in Weekend Trading,"The Luna Foundation Guard now holds about $1.7 billion in bitcoin, but crypto markets seem unimpressed with its purchases this year; bitcoin and ether are flat.",2022-04-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin was trading just under the $40,000 threshold where it started the weekend.
Insights: Luna Foundation Guard's bitcoin accumulation differs from purchases by publicly traded companies.
Technician's take: (Editor's note: Due to the long holiday weekend, Technician's Take will not appear. In its place, First Mover Asia is republishing a column by CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris on Block co-founder Jack Dorsey.)
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $39,928 -1.20%
Ether (ETH): $3,O26 -1.23%
Bitcoin, other major cryptos were flat for the holiday weekend
Bitcoin ended the week perched roughly where it spent much of the past few days, a little above $40,000, and with few signs of a rally.
""Last week we shared concerns around bitcoin's ability to maintain upward momentum,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote in comments to CoinDesk. ""We highlighted $40K as the struggling point on the downside and that has been the state of the market this week.""
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $39,928, a little lower from where it stood 24 hours earlier and about the same as where it started Friday during the holiday weekend. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading at about $3,026, a level from which it has barely budged since last Monday. Other major cryptos were largely in the red, albeit slightly, although SOL was one of the few exceptions rising about 1%.
Trading over the long weekend was light as investors continue to process rising inflation, the possibility of a recession and the latest developments from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. Markets, which were closed Friday, were down on Thursday with the tech-focused Nasdaq off more than 2% and the S&P 500 falling 1.2%.
Russia pressed forward with its attacks on major Ukraine cities, including the capital Kyiv, and demanded the surrender of the strategic Black Sea port of Mariupol in the southeast. Ukraine Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Sunday that discussions with Russia about establishing humanitarian corridors for civilians to evacuate major Ukraine cities had broken down.
Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of fund manager BitBull, was pessimistic about the coming week, noting that support could form well below $40,000. ""Things still don't look particularly bullish for bitcoin, and we continue to look for a reaction around $37K,"" he wrote. ""For any upward move, BTC will need to consolidate around $42K in the coming week – an unlikely scenario in the absence of major news or catalysts.""
S&P 500: 4,392 -1.2%
DJIA: 34,451 -0.3%
Nasdaq: 13,351 -2.1%
Gold: $1,974 +.05%
Terra Is 2022’s Version of Corporate Bitcoin Buying
Michael Saylor really wants corporations to follow his lead and put bitcoin on the balance sheet. In early 2021 the MicroStrategy (MSTR) CEO held a seminar on that topic, and claimed to have an audience of 1,400 firms. Having bitcoin in the corporate treasury alongside equities and bonds was supposed to cement the asset class in the history books, and lead to it hitting $6 million.
A year later, corporations don’t seem overly interested. According to CoinGecko’s tracker of public companies, there aren’t a lot of new entities that have added crypto to their balance sheets over the last year. The only non-major crypto or payments firm to have it is Tesla (TSLA). Block (SQ), the former Square, has it as it allows its clients to trade crypto, while a few game developers have it as part of a Web 3 gaming push or because they accept crypto as a payment method.
Saylor continues to add it to the MicroStrategy balance sheet, saying in a recent note to investors, “Adopting bitcoin as our primary treasury reserve asset set us apart from conventional competitors and elevated our brand.”
But he just can’t convince others to do the same. For listed firms, bitcoin is notoriously difficult to deal with from an accounting perspective. The narrative that bitcoin’s value will hit all-time highs because of corporate faith in it just didn’t materialize.
But in this void, Terra has stepped in with its frequent bitcoin buys, which pushed the Luna Foundation Guard’s (LFG) bitcoin holdings to nearly $1.7 billion. Founder Do Kwon has expressed a wish for that number to hit $10 billion. The current total makes Terra/LFG the second-largest corporate holder behind MicroStrategy’s $3.9 billion.
Does the market care about this narrative? Not really. The correlation between LFG’s bitcoin buys and the price of bitcoin is weakening; the last few buys didn’t stop bitcoin’s decline.
CryptoQuant’s data suggests that institutional interest continues to be strong for crypto, but hedge funds, family offices and high-net-worth individuals aren’t listed corporations. They would have a different investment thesis, and tempo, than what Saylor prescribed for corporations.
LFG’s mandate for buying crypto is also different from what a listed firm would do, and it is important is to look at the scale of the HODLing as well as the tempo.
LFG isn’t a listed Fortune 500 company, so the market doesn’t apply the same prestige to the purchases as bitcoin continues to stay correlated with equities and decline in value. Which, in turn, is the same logic that tells corporate treasurers that perhaps bitcoin isn’t the best asset for their books.
Jack Dorsey, Block and the Perils of Making Crypto User-Friendly (by CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris)
Last July, payments startup/giant (can you be both?) Square announced that it would be developing a hardware cryptocurrency wallet. The prospect of a wallet designed by the same folks who build the world’s fastest-growing point-of-sale technology promised exciting advances in ease of use and adoption. And that was months before Jack Dorsey flipped the tech world table by resigning from Twitter to focus on Square (now Block) full time, even further upping the stakes.
But, for perhaps the first time in Dorsey’s years-long flirtation with Bitcoin (“crypto,” not so much), there’s a significant disconnect between his plans and crypto long-timers’ preferences. In a Friday blog post, Block (SQ) announced its hardware wallet would make fingerprint identification the primary and default method for users to access their funds. Block does say it will “evaluate additional access methods that customers could opt into.”
At least in the case of consumer goods like cell phones, the motivation for adding biometric access control is usually simple convenience, but the ultimate implications could be dire. Another Web 2 holdover, Sam Altman, a former president of Y Combinator, a firm that helps fund tech startups, introduced a token called worldcoin over the summer of 2021. Critics including Edward Snowden pointed out that the scheme would risk exposing users’ biometric data with potentially severe and permanent consequences for victims. When the ruthless capitalists at the American Enterprise Institute think your plan is anti-social, you know you’re in trouble.
To be fair, the Block plan is different from the worldcoin one in crucial ways that make it more defensible. In part because the planned wallet is a single-user device, it will be able to create and store its biometric credentials locally, as your phone does. Worldcoin, by contrast, seemed likely to require a centralized database of iris-scan hashes, an absolute five-alarm fire of poor security architecture.
But even local processing and storage is a real risk – ultimately, no local data that can be reached via the internet should ever be considered truly secure. And the literally lifelong consequences of a compromised fingerprint make even the remotest exposure worth seriously interrogating.
Equally worrisome, making a fingerprint the main way of authorizing a crypto wallet could mean less emphasis on private key management. That could introduce an added risk vector for users: if your hardware wallet is the only home of your private keys, and that hardware is controlled by a fingerprint, the risk of losing all your money just went up rather than down.
Block seems well aware of the risks here, based on both the content and timing of the announcement. “We're aware of limitations [of fingerprint security] we'll need to design around,” the announcement states. And in the communications business, Fridays are when you drop news you don’t want anyone to pay too much attention to – reporters are largely finishing up their assignments and looking forward to a blissful weekend. So it’s a good bet Block was seeking to minimize blowback here.
All that said, Block is trying to thread an extremely tricky needle, and its current plans deserve a thoughtful rather than knee-jerk response. The announcement post makes clear the priority was to design a wallet that can be used “securely, but with ease,” balancing user experience with safety.
“We don’t want to force new behaviors on customers with a novel interface on the hardware component of the wallet we’re building,” the announcement continues. “Instead, making the mobile application the center of the experience will lead to familiar, intuitive interactions.”
For better or worse, we’re very used to using fingerprint unlocks on smaller devices. So using them makes absolute sense from a Silicon Valley hardware designer’s perspective. The presumption that something should be a mass-market product, ideally usable by even the slowest kids on the bus, is baked into the business models and culture of even relatively agile entities like Block.
Read more: David Z. Morris - Jack Dorsey Takes Square Deep Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole
The logic also, however, aligns with many calls within the crypto industry to prioritize making user experience better and more intuitive, not just for wallets but also for decentralized exchanges (DEX) and everything else. The problem, as crypto and security experts including MetaMask’s Taylor Monahan have pointed out, is that a smooth user experience is almost inextricable from security risks. In fact, she specifically cites another “ease-of-use” feature that led people to not save their private keys properly. It's about a feature of an early version of MyCrypto/MEW, the wallet Monahan built before joining Metamask recently. Specifically, the feature was an automatic download/display of all the wallet information that people apparently forgot to write down pretty often.
Ultimately, there will eventually be crypto products that strike the right balance between security and usability. But frankly, I think companies rushing in that direction now are shortchanging the entire ecosystem by de-emphasizing education. In fact, the assumption that front-end design can make a crypto system just as smooth and effortless to use as a Web 2 system may well prove to be fundamentally flawed: The complexity of crypto is inextricable from its decentralization, and methods of “abstracting away” that complexity almost always add new attack surfaces for people who want to take your money.
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China gross domestic product (MoM/YoY March)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China industrial production (YoY March)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): China retail sales (YoY March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Rethinking Securities Law in a Crypto Age
“Money Reimagined” hosts Sheila Warren and Michael Casey were joined by securities law expert Chris Brummer of Georgetown Law School. They discussed the limits of outdated U.S. securities law and the required rethinking needed for oversight and regulation of the crypto industry. Brummer also shares his ideas for a new disclosure framework for crypto markets.
US Officials Tie North Korea’s ‘Lazarus’ Hackers to $625M Crypto Theft: Axie Infinity’s Ronin blockchain suffered a massive exploit late last month.
OlympusDAO Co-Founder Doxxed? Lawsuit Claims to Unmask 'Apollo': An early Olympus investor alleges he was cheated out of millions of OHM tokens when key smart contracts were rendered inoperable.
The US and Europe Can't Regulate Crypto Alone: Global adoption makes regulating crypto inside national siloes futile.
Sam Bankman-Fried: The Man, the Hair, the Vision: SBF is 30 and his company, FTX, is everywhere. He'll be appearing at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
The US and Europe Can't Regulate Crypto Alone: Global adoption makes regulating crypto inside national siloes futile.
Today's crypto explainer: 5 Social Media Crypto Scams to Avoid
Other voices: A $620 million hack? Just another day in crypto (MIT Technology Review)
""Where does this continuing dominance come from, given that the U.S. economy no longer has the commanding position it held for a couple of decades after World War II? The answer is that there are self-reinforcing feedback loops, in which people use dollars because other people use dollars."" (New York Times columnist Paul Krugman) ... ""Now, with borrowing rates hitting 5% for the first time since 2011, homes may be getting too expensive to keep prices rising so rapidly."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Battered by high inflation readings and sharp messages from Federal Reserve officials about the need for interest-rate increases, bond prices have tumbled this year at a pace investors have rarely seen."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
58,253,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/18/tethers-paolo-ardoino-on-ust-its-all-fun-and-games-until-youre-a-100b-coin/,Tether's Paolo Ardoino on UST: 'It's All Fun and Games' Until You're a $100B Coin,The algorithmic stablecoin's growth has surpassed its larger rivals.,2022-04-18,"The fast-growing popularity of the TerraUSD stablecoin comes with some risk because of its dependence on algorithms to hold its dollar peg.
“It’s all fun and games if you’re a $5 [billion] or $10 billion market cap stablecoin,” Tether Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino said in an interview with CoinDesk at the Paris Blockchain Week Summit. But that can change the bigger that stablecoin's market cap gets.
UST is now the third-biggest stablecoin on the market after Tether's USDT and Circle's USD coin (USDC), which are still significantly larger in terms of market cap. However, the native stablecoin of the Terra ecosystem has grown rapidly, from $180 million at the beginning of 2021 to over $17 billion in market capitalization as of April 18.
Terraform Labs is the organization behind the UST stablecoin and its LUNA token.
UST keeps its $1 dollar value by using a smart contract-based algorithm to keep the price of UST anchored to $1 by permanently destroying LUNA tokens in order to mint create UST tokens.
As Ardoino sees it, “If you have a liquidation [with an algorithmic stablecoin of UST's size] with this market, you can still handle that. But imagine if you have a $80 [billion] or $100 billion market cap stablecoin like tether that’s [primarily] backed by digital assets. It’s really hard to predict what will happen and [know] if there will be enough liquidity to backstop that immense cascade.”
Why is he even noticing UST considering USDT and USDC are so much bigger, at a market cap of $82 billion and $49 billion, respectively? Maybe because UST has been quickly gaining on the stablecoin leaders, growing 138-fold in 2021.
But with the rewards come risks. Researchers have noted their concerns about algorithmic stablecoins, and some in the crypto community are particularly worried about LUNA. Because of the way the Terra ecosystem is designed, strong market volatility poses a major threat to UST's peg, these researchers say.
Another concern could be that over 67% of the demand for UST comes from Anchor Protocol.
The Anchor protocol, a decentralized savings protocol based on the Terra blockchain, offers a comparably high yield of 19.5% on UST deposits. Terra must therefore maintain that yield. If it doesn’t, UST holders could rapidly try to sell their tokens. In turn, that could raise the risk that there’s not enough liquidity in the market for everyone to exit at the same time, some analysts and traders have argued.
Terra did not immediately respond to a request for comment by CoinDesk.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
UST is not the only stablecoin that concerns investors. Ardoino’s own company, Tether, the issuer of the largest stablecoin by market cap, has been the subject of questions about whether it has enough collateral to back the 1:1 dollar peg of USDT.
UST’s growth has also left some crypto traders worried about the future stability of the stablecoin and the risks it poses to the whole crypto market.
But as for Ardoino, “I wish them well.”"
59,70,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/19/terras-luna-surges-17-as-ust-becomes-third-largest-stablecoin/,Terra’s LUNA Surges 17% as UST Becomes Third-Largest Stablecoin,"Terra has also purchased record amounts of Convex tokens in the past month, research found.",2022-04-19,"Terra’s LUNA outperformed the wider crypto market with a 17% bump in the past 24 hours, pushing prices to over $90 in Asian hours on Tuesday.
LUNA pushed past the $80-$82 mark, a pivot support level, to as much as $92.07 during early Asian hours. Profit-taking saw prices fall to $89 at writing time, another support level for the token. The move comes after a nearly 37% drop in the first two weeks of April following lifetime highs of $120 earlier this month.
LUNA is a governance token for money market protocol Terra. The spike comes as Terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST toppled Binance USD (BUSD) to become the third-largest stablecoin by circulation, during the later hours of Monday.
Terra also became the largest buyer of Convex’s CVX token over the past 30 days with over $17 million in purchases, according to research firm Delphi Digital.
Convex is a protocol that allows users to earn fees without locking their CRV, the token of the decentralized lending project Curve. Fees earned on Terra’s deposits are distributed among Terra users.
Stablecoins are cryptocurrencies pegged to fiat currencies, usually the U.S. dollar, with each token backed by an equivalent amount of fiat in reserve. Algorithmic stablecoins like UST take this one step ahead and can be backed by a basket of assets, such as bitcoin (BTC), without depending on any centralized third party to hold those assets.
In February, major crypto funds led by Jump Crypto invested $1 billion in the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a Singapore-based nonprofit that aims to maintain UST’s peg by purchasing several assets as reserve backing.
LFG has since purchased bitcoin, Avalanche’s AVAX, other stablecoins, data shows, with Terra also donating 10 million LUNA, worth $890 million at current prices, last week. The reserves currently sit at $2.48 billion at the time of writing, with 69% held in bitcoin."
60,347,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/19/first-mover-asia-is-germany-really-the-most-crypto-friendly-jurisdiction-maybe-not-bitcoin-gains/,First Mover Asia: Is Germany Really the Most Crypto-Friendly Jurisdiction? Maybe Not; Bitcoin Gains,BTC is continuing its recovery from a five-week low on Monday.,2022-04-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin traded higher alongside U.S. stocks, reaching $41,360.
Insights: Germany might not be as crypto-friendly as its top ranking implies.
Technician's take: Bitcoin's recovery phase remains intact, albeit within a wide trading range.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $41,386 +1.4%
Ether (ETH): $3,102 +2%
Bitcoin Price Rises for Second Day on Hopes for Soft Landing
By Bradley Keoun and Angelique Chen
Bitcoin (BTC) continued its recovery from a five-week low of around $38,700 on Monday.
Recently, the largest cryptocurrency by market value was changing hands at $41,300, still well off the high around $48,000 a few weeks ago.
“The macro landscape is looking positive, in my opinion,” wrote Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at the U.K.-based digital asset broker GlobalBlock in a newsletter.
Sotiriou thinks the economy will have a soft landing despite many analysts forecasting a recession. He is bullish on bitcoin and equities even though the U.S. Federal Reserve might jack up interest rates by 0.5 percentage point next month – double the 0.25 percentage-point increases seen in recent years.
Last week, crypto funds suffered outflows for the second straight week, with some $97 million of redemptions, possibly due to ""bitcoin becoming increasingly interest-rate sensitive.""
According to Glassnode, a large amount of bitcoin supply has been accumulated between the $38,000 and $45,000 price range, as reported by CoinDesk's Damanick Dantes in Market Wrap. That suggests price-insensitive traders hold much of bitcoin's supply above the $40,000 price level.
""Traders have still yet to make high conviction bets to the upside or downside,"" according to analysts from the investment research firm FundStrat.
Coin Metrics, a blockchain analysis firm, noted that Bitcoin is approaching the halfway point between the original blockchain's third and fourth reward halvings. (They happen every 210,000 data blocks, or roughly every four years; the next one is scheduled to happen on May 4, 2024.)
""Halvings are the core feature of Bitcoin’s programmatic monetary policy,"" Coin Metrics wrote.
In traditional markets, U.S. stocks rose as analysts noted that investors had become too bearish, and the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond yield rose to 2.94%, the highest since 2018.
Elsewhere in crypto, CoinDesk's Tracy Wang reported that the prolific decentralized finance (DeFi) developer Andre Cronje appears to be back in crypto after abruptly quitting the industry last month.
S&P 500: +1.6%
DJIA: +1.5%
Nasdaq: +2.2%
Gold: $1,952 -0.4%
No, Germany Isn’t the World’s Most Crypto-Friendly Country
By Sam Reynolds
What’s the first thing you associate ""EU"" with when it comes to business? Devastatingly high taxes and a fierce bureaucracy.
So it's of some surprise when Germany recently took top spot away from Singapore as the world’s most crypto-friendly jurisdiction, according to a ranking by CoinCub.
The rationale? No taxation on crypto if you sell it after a year of holding. If you sell it (over 600 euros, or $648) prior to that one-year point, you are taxed under the usual capital gains regime.
To be sure, this is a very good thing for long-term HODLERs. If you are long bitcoin and want to stack sats, this tax regime will treat you very well.
However, this doesn’t work very well for decentralized finance (DeFi). Decentralized exchanges, yield farming, liquidity mining, all of this relies on rapid trades and transactions. It's what underpins this fancy new machine, which has over $100 billion in value currently locked in.
So a DeFi trader in Germany is going to have a nasty tax bill come tax time. Figuring out the tax liability is difficult, when the average month of a DeFi trader is a complex and intricate web. Crypto derivatives trading – which pumps through hundreds of billions of dollars a day in volume – is also subject to the usual capital gains tax, too. Germany’s crypto friendliness quickly slips away if you look at it under this rubric.
Crypto has naturally gravitated to hubs like Singapore because of the lack of capital gains tax. Singapore is an island city with no natural resources, so in order to jump-start its development as a hub it created a tax-friendly regime to encourage trade.
With no capital gains tax there’s no need to worry about the length of holding when experimenting with new protocols. You’re just able to trade.
Granted, Singapore has made some moves that would be considered ""anti-crypto,"" but this still doesn’t mean the country should be considered crypto unfriendly.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) discourages crypto trading by the general public because it knows that if enough people get rekt after leveraging their retirement savings, they will complain to politicians who will ask for more oversight and control – this oversight and control just isn’t in the DNA of a financial hub like Singapore.
But despite this discouragement, the lack of capital gains tax still exists and anyone that wants to trade can go right ahead. Singapore also discourages other behavior like drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco, and accompanies both with hefty vice taxes. No such vice tax exists for crypto.
Bitcoin Stabilizes Above $40K; Resistance at $43K-$46K
By Damanick Dantes
Bitcoin (BTC) returned above $40,000, which is the midpoint of its three-month long price range. Still, the cryptocurrency faces initial resistance at $43,500, which could stall the current upside in price.
BTC was trading around $41,200 during the New York trading day, and was up 2% over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on intraday charts is approaching overbought levels, similar to what occurred in late-March, which preceded a pullback in price. On the daily chart, however, the RSI is neutral, which means buyers could remain active at support.
For now, BTC continues to hold support above $37,500 – a key level that has kept the recovery phase intact. Further, a series of higher price lows since Jan. 24 indicates a slowdown in selling pressure, albeit with 20% price swings.
Momentum signals on the weekly chart are still positive, which could point to additional upside toward the $46,710 resistance level over the intermediate term.
10:30 a.m HKT/SGT(2:30 a.m. UTC) International Monetary Fund Global Outlook Press Conference
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Binance Exec on $150M Funding Round to Reimburse Victims of Ronin Exploit, Terra's LUNA Becomes Third Largest Stablecoin
Australia’s First Bitcoin ETF to Be Listed Next Week: Report: BTC was up by 2% over the past 24 hours, compared with an 11% rise in RUNE and LUNA.
Terra’s LUNA Surges 17% as UST Becomes Third-Largest Stablecoin: Terra has also purchased record amounts of Convex' tokens in the past month, research found.
FTX Plan Said to Face CFTC Roundtable Next Month: A proposal from FTX.US on direct derivatives clearing is set to be the focus of public discussion on May 23.
The End of NFT Rug Pulls?
Today's crypto explainer: Inflationary and Deflationary Cryptocurrencies: What’s the Difference?"
61,352,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/19/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-struggles-as-dollar-breaks-multi-year-bearish-trendline/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Struggles as Dollar Breaks Multi-Year Bearish Trend Line,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for April 19, 2022.",2022-04-19,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Sign up here to get it in your inbox each weekday morning.
Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Bitcoin bounce stalls, dollar breaks multi-decade bearish trend line.
Featured Story: The fast-growing popularity of the TerraUSD stablecoin comes with some risk.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Matthew Sigel, head of digital assets research, VanEck
Tigran Gambaryan, vice president of global intelligence and investigations, Binance
Joshua Ellul, director, Centre for Distributed Ledger Technology
By Omkar Godbole
While bitcoin has held vital support, the cryptocurrency does not appear to be out of the woods yet, given the continued strength of the U.S. dollar.
The top cryptocurrency by market value traded near $40,700 at press time, having printed a high of $41,250 during the Asian trading hours. On Monday, buyers held the three-day chart 200-period moving average, staving off a major technical breakdown.
The dollar index (DXY), which tracks the greenback's value against majors, rose to 101 early today, refreshing two-year highs and taking the month-to-date gain to 2.5%. The global reserve currency has risen 12% since May 2021, marking its best stretch since its run-up in late 2014 through early 2015, per data provided by charting platform TradingView.
The DXY may see further gains, as the monthly chart shows the two-decade bearish trendline has been breached to the upside.
""We’ve been warning that USD strength is one of the biggest headwinds for markets, including BTC and crypto. As BTC struggles to keep its head above $40K, the U.S. dollar index (DXY) just broke 100 for the first time in almost two years,"" analysts at Delphi Digital wrote in a note published Monday. ""The greenback is now on the verge of a multi-decade breakout as two of its major currency pairs (EUR and JPY) are both vulnerable of technical breakdowns of their own. The EUR and JPY make up ~70% of the DXY index.""
""Looking back over the last 10 years, we can see how BTC’s price tends to trend in the opposite direction of DXY momentum. In other words, when the dollar is gaining momentum, BTC underperforms (and vice versa),"" Delphi's analysts added.
Ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market value, traded flat at around $3,050, having tested dip demand under the psychological support of $3,000 yesterday. The cryptocurrency has seen increased demand for December call options in recent weeks.
""Ethereum is caught between two powerful colliding forces: (declining on-chain activity + market correlation) vs. (institutional adoption + Web3),"" Ilan Solot, partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email. ""The latter will prove a secular shift, while the former is merely a cyclical dynamic. These cyclical forces are coiling ETH ever tighter into a spring.""
While top cryptocurrencies traded sideways, Terra's LUNA and privacy-focused monero (XMR) chalked up double-digit gains. Terra's algorithmic stablecoin UST replaced Binance USD (BUSD) as the third-largest stablecoin by circulation during the later hours of Monday. Monero is set to implement a hard fork in July to improve network security and fee changes, developers confirmed in a GitHub post.
Ethereum Foundation Holds $1.3B in Ether, $300M in Non-Crypto Investments
Silvergate Bank's Q1 Net Income Nearly Doubles to $24.7M
Metaverse Startup The Sandbox Looks to Raise $400M at $4B Valuation: Report
Crypto Exchange KuCoin Launches $100M Fund for NFT Creators
Privacy Focused Monero Plans Hard Fork in July; XMR Surges 11% on ‘Monerun’
Ireland's Political Parties to Be Banned From Accepting Crypto: Report
Indian Crypto Exchange CoinDCX Raises Over $135M in New Funding Round
UK Crypto Industry Hopes for More Clarity From Planned Stablecoin Rules
BNB Chain to Burn Over $740M Worth of BNB Tokens
Terra’s LUNA Surges 17% as UST Becomes Third Largest Stablecoin
Blockchain.com Could Look at an IPO as Early as This Year: Report
By Helene Braun
The fast-growing popularity of the TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin comes with some risk because of its dependence on algorithms to hold its dollar peg.
“It’s all fun and games if you’re a $5 [billion] or $10 billion market cap stablecoin,” Tether Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino said in an interview with CoinDesk at the Paris Blockchain Week Summit. But that can change the bigger that stablecoin's market cap gets.
UST is now the third-biggest stablecoin on the market after Tether's USDT and Circle's USD coin (USDC), which are still significantly larger in terms of market cap. However, the native stablecoin of the Terra ecosystem has grown rapidly, from $180 million at the beginning of 2021 to over $17 billion in market capitalization as of April 18. Read The Full Story Here
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
62,172,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/22/bailout-fund-backstop-or-bouncy-ball-heres-how-lfgs-bitcoin-reserve-might-work/,"Bailout Fund, Backstop or Bouncy Ball? Here's How LFG's Bitcoin 'Reserve' Might Work","Developers of the fast-growing UST stablecoin say the coin's $1 value peg isn't ""backed"" by anything – just a blockchain-based algorithm. So why does it need a multibillion-dollar bitcoin reserve in case of an emergency? How would that work?",2022-04-22,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) has been making headlines over the past month as one of the biggest bitcoin (BTC) buyers for a new ""reserve,"" seemingly appearing out of nowhere to scoop up $1.7 billion of the largest cryptocurrency by market value.
But what is the LFG reserve's purpose, and for what would it use the bitcoin?
According to LFG's website, the reserve is set up to support the Terra ecosystem – a blockchain-based project focused around a dollar-pegged stablecoin known as UST and a cryptocurrency called LUNA.
Do Kwon, co-founder of Terraforms Labs and the project's leader, described LFG in a tweet as a “decentralized [foreign exchange] reserve” for UST. According to LFG's website, Kwon serves as director and founding member of the LFG organization.
The matter starts to get confusing, though, because the token's design as an ""algorithmic stablecoin"" means UST is ""not backed or collateralized by bitcoin or any other asset,"" according to a Terraform Labs spokesperson.
So it's a ""reserve"" for UST – but not backing UST?
With little in writing from LFG to explain how the reserve works, some analysts are drawing their own interpretations.
“To me the LFG reserve is something between an insurance policy and a backstop of last resort,” said Felix Hartmann, head of Florida hedge fund Hartmann Capital. ""It is a psychological backstop, similar to FDIC, to comfort people that this in fact is not a house of cards.” FDIC stands for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures U.S. bank deposits.
At the core of the matter are crucial questions about fast-growing crypto markets: Will these computer code-based projects built on blockchains actually work on their own without external support, and are they truly decentralized?
Read more: ‘Built to Fail’? Why TerraUSD’s Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares
As the industry has developed, stablecoins have taken two forms: The biggest, like tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC), say they're backed by enough assets that will guarantee that each token is worth at least $1.
But a new breed of ""algorithmic stablecoins"" like UST exist as ""protocols"" – basically lines of programming on a blockchain that supposedly will assure the token stays pegged at $1. (The stablecoin is officially known as terraUSD but also goes by UST, its trading symbol.)
Even so, many early versions of algorithmic stablecoins have crashed – Beanstalk being the latest. So questions have arisen about how sustainable UST's growth might be, with a market capitalization that grew by $15 billion in five months. It now stands as the third-largest stablecoin.
The new reserve might serve to address any gaps in the confidence. Kwon has hinted that purchases will not stop until the reserves reach $10 billion, saying that “BTC reserves will open a new monetary era of the Bitcoin standard.”
LFG describes certain elements of the ""UST reserve protocol"" on its website, but how it would work – or under what circumstances it might kick in – isn't completely spelled out.
According to the website, LFG is a ""nonprofit organization established in the Republic of Singapore dedicated to creating and providing greater economic sovereignty, security, and sustainability of open-source software and applications that help build and promote a truly decentralized economy.""
It might be no coincidence that ""LFG"" is a widely used acronym in crypto lingo to express enthusiasm or optimism for a trade. It stands for ""Let's f**king go.""
CoinDesk asked the Terraform Labs spokesperson if there was anything detailed in writing about the LFG reserve that officials could provide, and she referred us to a March 23 proposal on Terra’s research platform,from a trading firm called Jump Trading, which also happens to be Jump Crypto’s parent company, a lead investor in the LFG project.
It gets complicated – real fast – but the idea in the proposal is that the reserve would provide an additional leg to stabilize UST’s price if it falls way below the peg.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Under the Jump Trading proposal, which has yet to get the green light, LFG would transfer the UST reserve assets to a dedicated reserve pool.
This reserve would be accessible only in “emergencies but not otherwise,” according to the proposal.
The suggested threshold was $0.98 – i.e., if things deteriorated to the point where traders were willing to exchange $1 of UST coins for 98 cents of bitcoin – a 2% downward deviation from the $1 peg. Such a level, according to Jump Trading, would ""prevent the fund from being utilized for ordinary movements in the price of UST in favor of extraordinary movements only.”
But if the emergency conditions actually materialized, retail investors could swap their UST for bitcoin (or other assets in reserve pool) at a discount.
The proposal doesn't say this specifically, but ostensibly the mechanism would establish a price floor for UST, and buyers would step in if price falls below $0.98.
“It creates demand for UST by arbitrageurs who can buy UST at, say, $0.97 and convert it for BTC at $0.98,"" said Jordi Alexander, chief investment officer of Selini Capital. “This should create a more hard floor at $0.98 and prevent a cataclysmic redemption flow into LUNA because at that point, say, UST was going to $0.97, people would arbitrage the price back up.”
Theoretically, the price floor for UST would help to restore the coin's market value back to the $1 peg.
Dustin Teander, an analyst at the crypto research and data firm Messari, said that “in the same way a gym floor provides a firm surface for a basketball to bounce, the reserves provide UST a price floor to bounce off of.”
When the crisis passes, the reserve pool drains its UST holding by letting traders purchase UST at the $1 peg with BTC.
“Can $2 billion in reserves really protect $17 billion of stablecoin from collapsing? Of course not. But it is a psychological backstop to comfort people that this in fact is not a house of cards,” said Hartmann.
The proposal is still in the feedback process on Agora, the research forum of Terraform Labs where users can discuss governance and development initiatives.
“The proposal process on Agora is for eliciting feedback and calibrating the design before moving forward with the specs for the BTC Reserve. Currently, bridging solutions are being explored for adding BTC to the Reserve, and a timeline for the launch of the Reserve is still TBD [to be decided],” Terraform Labs spokesperson told CoinDesk in a statement.
“As of now, the proposal is being built out – not by Jump, but by other partners of Terra – before being presented again to the community,” Nihar Shah, a researcher at Jump Crypto, Jump Trading's filial said in an email.
LFG didn’t return requests for comment.
All of this would just be another in-the-weeds explanation of the rules of a complex blockchain protocol – a dime a dozen in crypto – if it weren't for the fact that so much money was at stake.
Terra’s UST toppled Binance USD as the third-largest stablecoin behind Tether’s USDT and Circle’s USDC because its circulating supply has grown nearly tenfold over the past year to a whopping $17 billion. The price of LUNA, UST’s sister token that absorbs the stablecoin’s price swings, exploded to $95 from $13 a year ago.
The fast growth has raised concerns that a collapse of the UST peg might trigger systemic failures in crypto markets. LUNA's market capitalization is just over $70 billion. Bitcoin's is $770 billion.
“A late implosion of LUNA would be catastrophic for the space,” bringing down the industry into a “cold, bitter, long winter,” Galois Capital argued in a tweet.
The steady rise is mainly fueled by Anchor, a decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol built on top of the Terra blockchain, which currently holds more than half of the total supply of UST, some $9.5 billion – locked up on the platform, thanks to a tempting 19.5% annual yield that savers can reap on their UST deposits.
Yield-hungry depositors flocked to Anchor, fueling the demand for UST, but the platform’s revenue can’t keep up with yield payout and it already needed a $450 million bailout in February.
As long as UST grows via demand-creating schemes such as Anchor’s subsidized yields, the algorithmic peg seems to hold fine. But what happens if the “only-up” market ends and demand dwindles?
Jump Trading’s proposal assumes robust private markets and liquidity for UST, while one of the main criticisms of algorithmic stablecoins is their constant need to generate demand; otherwise, they break the peg and collapse.
In a research paper, Ryan Clements, chair in business law and regulation at the University of Calgary, argued that algorithmic stablecoins must generate a perpetual demand in the underlying ecosystem and the arbitrage mechanism to remain stable. Translation: The $1 pegging mechanism for UST might not hold if traders who help to maintain the system were to lose confidence, and back away altogether.
“Perpetual demand, and reliance on arbitrage, is not certain because of 'step-back' risk,” Clements told CoinDesk in email. Step-back risk refers to an event when trust in an algorithmic stablecoin evaporates and investors lose interest in executing the arbitrage to stabilize the price, so the stablecoin drifts into a death spiral.
Read more: The Risks Behind LUNA-UST Stablecoin, According to a Bearish Academic
There is no shortage of examples for that. Beanstalk Farms, an Ethereum-based stablecoin protocol, was exploited for $182 million in a hack on April 17, and its BEAN token collapsed to $0.03 from the $1 peg after the attack. In July 2021, Iron Finance’s stablecoin, which was partially asset-backed and also pegged algorithmically, imploded when investors panic-sold its sister token, TITAN.
Clements cited various potential threats to the stability of UST. For example, Anchor may not be able to sustain its current high yield and depositors flee, a sell-off in bitcoin might transmit volatility to UST, or trading activity may not be sufficient to replenish the reserves.
LUNA has already had a close encounter with losing its peg. When the crypto market crashed in May 2021, UST briefly dropped to $0.87 and LUNA collapsed to $4 from $20.
If only LUNA can absorb the price deviation of UST, selling LUNA for UST makes the situation worse. So, having billions of dollars worth of bitcoin in reserve can counteract the downward spiral in price.
“It should materially reduce the risk of a catastrophic failure. Not to zero, of course,” Dragonfly Capital Managing Partner Haseeb Qureshi said.
The reserve was not part of the Terra blockchain protocol’s original design, nor are there any mentions in the white paper that Terra would need any other assets – apart from the UST and LUNA used in the algorithm – to maintain the peg.
“LFG's backstop of BTC reserves turns UST into something closer to Celo's model, which is a mix of seigniorage shares with crypto collateral,” Qureshi said. Celo’s stablecoins are partially backed by assets and an algorithm adjusting its supply.
Can UST claim to be decentralized? Analysts are split.
“The fact that [Terraform Labs] needs a centralized entity (LFG) to inject capital, purchase reserves and continually take actions to strengthen the underlying Terra ecosystem (and create more and more use cases for UST) seriously calls into question the 'decentralized' assertion of Terra,” said Clements.
By contrast, Messari’s Teander said UST would remain decentralized through the whole process.
“The BTC only practically comes into the equation once the Jump proposal is implemented, and when it does, it will be controlled in a decentralized protocol, not the centralized LFG organization,” he said.
Jordi Alexander of Selini Capital said that it takes many steps for a crypto project to get to decentralization.
“I see it like a parent having a child,” Alexander said. “You first give birth to them and have to guide them through childhood and education years by supporting and making decisions, until eventually when they are adults and ready to leave the house. If you have done a good job they will manage to be successfully independent without you.”
UPDATE (19:45 UTC): This update includes statement about the status and prospective launch of the proposal from Terraform Labs spokesperson."
63,345,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/04/22/built-to-fail-why-terrausds-growth-is-giving-finance-experts-nightmares/,‘Built to Fail’? Why TerraUSD’s Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares,"The Terra/Luna blockchain is growing at a blinding pace. At its heart, according to some critics, is a ticking time bomb.",2022-04-22,"Late on Monday, April 18, the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) edged out Binance’s BUSD to become the third-largest stablecoin by market cap. There are now nearly $18 billion UST in circulation. That’s well below the nearly $50 billion total for Circle’s USDC, or the $82 billion worth of Tether’s USDT roaming the Earth.
But UST is also much different from those competitors, in ways that could make it incredibly risky.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here. Michael Casey is away.
Stablecoins are tokens tracked by a blockchain, but in contrast to assets like bitcoin (BTC), they’re intended to consistently match the buying power of a fiat currency, most often the U.S. dollar. Stablecoins were first created to give active crypto traders a tool for moving quickly between more volatile positions, though as we’ll see, the potential for big interest rates on loans has also helped attract capital.
USDT and USDC are so-called “backed” or collateralized stablecoins. They keep their 1:1 dollar “peg” because they are (ostensibly) backed by bank accounts holding dollars, or by other dollar equivalent assets, for which tokens can be redeemed – although Tether has been notoriously reticent to specify the nature of its reserves.
UST, by contrast, began life as what’s known as an “algorithmic” stablecoin. These could also be referred to as “decentralized” stablecoins because decentralization is their primary reason for existing. A collateralized stablecoin like USDT or USDC is reliant on banks and traditional markets. That makes them in turn subject to regulation, enforcement and ultimately, censorship of transactions. Circle and Tether are run by centralized corporate entities with the ability to blacklist users and even seize their funds. Both systems have done this, sometimes at government behest.
In principle, algorithmic stablecoins like UST don’t have this censorship risk because they are not run by centralized corporate structures and do not hold backing in traditional institutions like banks. Of course, in reality “decentralization” is relative, and most such systems today still have key men, such as Do Kwon at Terraform Labs, or affiliated organizations that provide labor and funding. Whatever a system’s “decentralized” branding, regulators can still go after such public targets, a risk that’s worth keeping in mind.
Instead of being backed by assets like dollars or bonds, algorithmic stablecoins are intended to maintain their dollar peg by what looks to some like financial alchemy. But experts are highly skeptical that these systems’ designers have actually figured out how to turn lead into gold.
Broadly, algorithmic stablecoins rely on a pair of tokens, both created ex nihilo at the token’s launch. One token is the stablecoin itself – terraUSD, frax, neutrinoUSD – and the other is the corresponding “balancer token” ­– LUNA, FXS or WAVES, respectively. Generally, the balancer token can be “burned,” or destroyed, to create more of the corresponding stablecoin.
The defining algorithm in an “algorithmic stablecoin” is a function that changes the amount of the balancer token required to create the stablecoin. This changing burn value is intended to create arbitrage opportunities for traders: gaps between the price of the balancer token and the stablecoin that they can profit from, but that also drive the price of the stablecoin toward its peg. In principle, this would attract profit-motivated traders to drive the stablecoin back to $1 whenever the peg wavered.
The nuances of these systems vary, but it doesn’t take much financial expertise to see reason for skepticism. Let’s hear it from an expert anyway.
“You have a two-token system and one token has no intrinsic value, it’s only derived from secondary trading value, and the other token is supposed to be a stable token, and you have an arbitrage,” wonders Ryan Clements, an assistant professor of Business Law at the University of Calgary. “At some point you look at the one with no intrinsic value and you think, why is this worth $5?”
Clements’ past research has focused on arbitrage risks and instability in exchange-traded funds, where there can be a similar disconnect between the price of a synthetic asset and that of its underlying components. Last year, Clements published a paper about algorithmic stablecoins called “Built to Fail,” arguing that the systems are inherently fragile and can never be truly “stable.” (Note that MakerDAO’s DAI is a bit of an outlier with some unique design features, and these critiques don’t necessarily apply to it.)
Clements argues the theory behind algorithmic stablecoins relies on three specific flawed assumptions. An algorithmic stablecoin, he writes, can only function when three conditions are met at all times:
There is a “support level of demand” for the stablecoin and/or balancer token
There’s a permanent supply of independent actors to perform price-stabilizing arbitrage
A market has near-perfect information to trade on
But Clements argues these assumptions break down frequently, particularly during times of instability.
One clear sign of this, according to Kevin Zhou of hedge fund Galois Capital, is that the teams behind algorithmic stablecoins sometimes have to essentially step in and do the balancing arbitrage themselves.
“Some of these algo [systems] are market-making,” says Zhou. “I don’t know if it’s them directly, or they give a loan to a market maker to maintain the peg.”
There’s even clearer evidence from algos that have already collapsed, most notably Iron Finance, which unwound in a “death spiral” in June 2021. As Novum Alpha CEO Patrick Tan explained the Iron Finance unwind at the time, “The speed at which [balancer token] TITAN started to fall caused [supposed stablecoin] IRON to lose its peg, allowing traders to redeem IRON, which was priced at US$0.90 as the peg started to slip, for US$0.75 in stablecoin and US$0.25 in TITAN.” The system’s stablecoin and balancer tokens have both since dropped to near zero.
Similar opportunities for profit can emerge whenever an algorithmic stablecoin slips too far from its peg. Once the arbitrage emerges, it becomes self-perpetuating and self-accelerating. Without outside intervention, it is an unavoidable death sentence.
The team behind LUNA/UST seem to agree with the idea that such systems can’t work. They don’t say so out loud, but they’ve made a variety of efforts to add more stability into the system, and those efforts have accelerated alongside UST’s growth.
It is important to note the terraUSD stablecoin is the central function of the entire Luna layer 1 blockchain, which also has general smart-contract functionality. Luna also has a variety of other tools and functions, including the Anchor lending platform, non-fungible tokens (NFT), initial coin offerings (ICO) and the like. The strategy here, as laid out by Luna bull José Maria Macedo of Delphi Digital on a recent episode of the “Bankless” podcast, is that demand for these tools will provide another source of support for the price of LUNA and, in turn, improve the stability of UST.
Clements acknowledged this ecosystem play makes UST the algorithmic stablecoin that “seems to have the most logical potential for stability.” But, he said, “I don’t think an ecosystem play is nearly as stable as something like USDC.”
The biggest question mark in the ecosystem, according to Clements and others, is Anchor. Anchor has attracted nearly $16 billion of deposits of LUNA, wrapped ETH (backed by actual ether that’s tied up on the Ethereum chain) and, above all, UST usually “bonded” (or locked) for long periods of time. This provides stability by preventing the sale of a large chunk of UST.
The problem is the deposit demand is essentially an illusion. Anchor provides 20% APY on locked deposits, but that rate isn’t profitable for the system: The current APR being offered to borrowers is just 11.81%. A lender is only sustainable if it collects more interest on its loans than it pays out to deposits.
That gap between lender and borrower APY is covered by a reserve fund that has been draining rapidly as the amount locked in Anchor grows. Moreover, even at 11.81%, lending demand seems light: With $15.5 billion locked in Anchor, only $3.2 billion of loans are outstanding, according to data provider DeFiLlama.
“All the UST in Anchor is just rotator capital, farming for the subsidized yield,” said Zhou. “Rotator capital” means money that is moved rapidly from one protocol to another in search of high yield (what Wall Streeters used to call “hot money”). If Anchor’s yield drops below the competition, there could be a significant rush to the exits, during which “rotators” in the staking pool would look to unload their LUNA and UST.
That seems practically inevitable because there isn’t an infinite amount of money to pour into the reserve fund. As soon as that financial nitroglycerin runs out, it could create the conditions for a depegging of terraUSD.
But the people behind Luna have come up with an answer to that, too. Starting in February, the affiliated Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) began purchasing bitcoin to create a further backstop for TerraUSD. The LFG reserve, including bitcoin and other assets, now totals about $2.3 billion.
It’s still unclear how this reserve will actually wind up working. The BTC is still held by LFG, not by the luna/terraUSD protocol. Debate is currently ongoing in the Luna community over proposals for integrating a second, different kind of reserve asset into the previously purely algorithmic system. The broad contours of the proposals, however, all involve an automated and arbitrage-incentivized mechanism that would open swaps from UST to BTC when the UST peg wavers.
There are two reasons to wonder whether this is a real solution. First, it doesn’t change the basic math of UST’s exit liquidity in a crisis. According to Zhou, the total of all non-LUNA reserves and all UST being used in applications on the Luna chain only amounts to about $3 billion, against $18 billion in stablecoins outstanding.
“So there’s about $14 billion that needs to exit through luna in a compression or unwind,” said Zhou. That kind of selling pressure would likely drive down the price of luna itself dramatically, he argued, essentially blocking all the exits at the exact moment the building is on fire. “On a full unwind, some people are going to be left holding the bag, either in terraUSD that is depegged, or in hyperinflated luna that has no bid.”
But it might be even worse than that. What if building a BTC reserve actually increases the likelihood of a bank run?
“This could create an incentive (effectively an economic moral hazard) to utilize strategies to acquire discounted BTC,” Clements says of the plan. Such a coordinated, intentional attack could look similar to George Soros’s legendary attack on the British pound. The Bank of England spent more than 3.3 billion pounds countertrading to defend the pound’s peg against other European currencies, but ultimately failed.
Attacking a pegged asset could be described as an attempt to acquire the backing assets at a discount, by forcing a fire sale of the collateral. Especially given that BTC is a harder asset and generally superior money to LUNA/UST (and if it isn’t, it’s not much of a reserve asset), it is nearly a law of nature that LUNA or UST holders will seek to transform those tokens into BTC.
The sharks may already be circling.
“There’s a lot of incentive to attack the peg, especially for people outside the [crypto] space,” said Zhou. “There’s a lot of these Chicago [traders], they don’t give a [damn]. If they see an opportunity, they’re going to Soros-attack it. They’re just waiting for the right moment … I think [UST] will collapse on its own, but if someone attacks it, it will collapse even faster.”
There are other concerns, both with the BTC reserve plan and terraUSD’s basic structure. For instance, one aspect of a leading proposal for the reserve would rely on offering traders arbitrage incentives to replenish the BTC reserves once a crisis has passed. That’s perfectly sensible from a decentralization perspective, since in the long term you don’t want to rely on outside groups like LFG.
“But what happens if there isn't enough trading activity to replenish the [BTC] reserves outside of crises?” asks Clements. “This is another ongoing vulnerability, in my opinion.”
An even more fundamental question may be exactly how much leash regulators will give Do Kwon and his fellow travelers. The various capital injections and reserve restructurings make it clear there’s not much that’s “decentralized” about luna/terraUSD. At $18 billion, terraUSD is far from a systemic risk for mainstream finance, but continued growth could certainly invite the proverbial Eye of Sauron.
And while it’s not a big worry for Wall Street, luna/terraUSD could be a systemic risk to the cryptosphere. Do Kwon has said he would like to grow the system’s BTC holdings to $10 billion. But if that reserve is integrated in the wrong way, it could create the conditions for a future sudden flood of BTC for sale if the peg is attacked or breaks under market strain.
“Could the utilization of the bitcoin reserve transmit volatility across the crypto ecosystem?” Clements asked on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.” “It would seem obvious that it could.”
So while Iron Finance sank alone, terraUSD could drag others down with it."
64,360,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/26/first-mover-asia-spot-bitcoin-etfs-are-launching-in-australia-but-elsewhere-they-face-brutal-fund-outflows/,First Mover Asia: Spot Bitcoin ETFs Are Launching in Australia but Elsewhere They Face Brutal Fund Outflows,"Australia follows a lengthy list of spot bitcoin issuances in Europe and Canada, but these products come at a challenging time for crypto; bitcoin and ether drop.",2022-04-26,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin, ether and other major cryptos plummeted as investors remained averse to risk.
Insights: Spot BTC ETFs launch in Australia. But elsewhere, they are facing fund outflows.
Technician's take: BTC's current pullback is similar to what occurred in September of last year, albeit with weak price momentum.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $38,418 -4.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,839 -5.7%
Bitcoin and other major cryptos plunge
After a promising start to the week, bitcoin swooned on Tuesday, recently dropping about 4.5% over the past 24 hours as investors continued their recent risk-off posture amid the same macroeconomic uncertainty that has been plaguing the world throughout the year.
Just a day after bitcoin soared past $40,500 on news of financial giant Fidelity's decision to allow consumers to invest in bitcoin in their 401(k) retirement savings accounts, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading just over $38,000, its lowest mark since early March. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at about $2,820, off roughly 5.7%, following a day when it pushed past $3,000.
Other major altcoins by market cap were in the red, many of them significantly so. Terra's LUNA token and ADA were both recently down over 7%. Popular meme coin DOGE fell more than 9%.
Analysts have been cautious in predicting cryptos' trend in the coming weeks as bitcoin has wrestled with the $40,000 threshold with one analyst writing in a report that secondary support could form ""near $27,200.""
Crypto declines tracked equity markets, which tumbled as Wall Street digested an inauspicious beginning to the earnings season, fiscal tightening by the U.S. central bank, discouraging economic data and signs that Russia would escalate its attacks on neighboring Ukraine. The tech-focused Nasdaq declined a whopping 3.9%, while the S&P 500 fell 2.8%.
On Tuesday, Google parent Alphabet (GOOG) said its first-quarter profit had dropped 8%, and in a report, Deutsche Bank (DB) predicted ""a major recession,"" revising its forecast of earlier this month for a milder downturn. The latest economic news came as Russia cut off natural gas supplies to Poland, which has been fearful that it could be a target of Russian aggression. Separately, Russia accused Western countries supportive of Ukraine of conducting a proxy war.
""Bitcoin reversed lower as risk aversion returned to Wall Street, with tech stocks leading the decline,"" Oanda Americas Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote in an email, noting Russia's decision on Poland gas exports. Moya added: ""Ethereum also turned negative and will continue to follow what happens on Wall Street.""
S&P 500: 4,175 -2.8%
DJIA: 33,240 -2.3%
Nasdaq: 12,490 -3.9%
Gold: $1,905 +0.3%
Spot BTC ETFs launch in Australia. But elsewhere, they are facing fund outflows.
Australia is going to have its own bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETF) in the near future, despite some delays because of problems with the plumbing that delayed Wednesday’s (April 27) scheduled launch.
Australia follows a long list of bitcoin ETF issuances in Canada and Europe. There’s still no spot bitcoin ETF in the U.S., but traders in Toronto, Europe and South America are able to trade frequently and in sizable volumes if they choose.
But as the Australian ETF prepares to launch it faces a market with compressed premiums and fast outflows. One of Australia’s ""priciest funds"" is listing just over a year after the first bitcoin ETFs hit the market in Toronto.
In the eyes of traders, these ETFs replaced the Grayscale Bitcoin Fund (GBTC) as a way to hold crypto in registered or institutional accounts. The premium on GBTC flipped negative and has stayed deeply in that territory ever since – now at -23%. (Grayscale is a CoinDesk sister company.)
The U.S. still doesn’t have a spot bitcoin ETF. But other nations quickly listed their own, and the vehicle became popular at exchanges in Europe and South America. As U.S.-based investors are familiar with the Canadian market they flocked northward, including ARK Investment.
While ETF issuers were once secretly cheerful of GBTC’s fate that cheer might have been glib as on the eve of the listing of the first Australian bitcoin ETF data shows major outflows from crypto ETFs and premium compressions.
As bitcoin continues its rangebound trajectory, drifting between $37,000 and$45,000, ETF traders seem to have lost interest and are choosing to exit the 3iQ Coinshares bitcoin ETF via redemptions after buying the dip in March. Of course, there have been other periods of outflows but they haven’t been this prominent.
And with this outflow comes a compression in premiums to the point where it's now a discount.
The 3iQ Coinshares bitcoin ETF is now trading at a -2.7% discount. This isn’t GBTC-level bad because the ETF is known to gyrate between premiums and discounts. During the 2021 summer rebound after the spring crash (where it hit a low of 5%), for instance, the ETF traded at a premium of 5.7%, occasionally rebounding to highs of 2.5%-2.7% throughout the year as the price oscillated upwards.
What will happen to Australia’s bitcoin ETF from Cosmos? Given that it's launching in a market with a net outflow from bitcoin ETFs as well as exchanges as traders look to HODL, it’s unlikely that the premium will last.
But historically speaking, strong flows are also a bullish sign as investors look to hold on to their crypto after the end of a correction anticipating prices to increase. Traders will eventually return along with their liquidity and the premium will return, but it will be a tough few months before it happens as all bitcoin ETFs look to regain their footing.
Talk about launching in a tough market.
Bitcoin Pullback Deepens, Support at $37K
Bitcoin (BTC) extended its decline on Tuesday, although support at $37,500 could stabilize the down move.
The cryptocurrency is attempting to maintain a series of higher price lows since Jan. 24, which typically coincides with rising price momentum. This time, however, a bearish setup on the monthly chart could increase the risk of a breakdown in price.
Buyers will need to keep BTC elevated above $40,000, the midpoint of a three-month price range, in order to sustain the current recovery phase.
BTC's current pullback is similar to what occurred in September of last year, when buyers began to take profits around the $46,000-$50,000 resistance zone. Still, unlike the current situation, last year's rally above $40,000 benefited from positive long-term momentum.
For now, BTC's wide trading range could continue for another week until a decisive breakout or breakdown is confirmed.
Crypto Bahamas conference with investors, developers and other blockchain leaders
Financial Times Crypto and Digital Assets Summit
Meta first quarter earnings
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Industry Reaction to Musk Twitter Buy, Gemini Exec on Australia’s First Bitcoin ETF Plan
Gemini will provide custody and clearing for Australia's first bitcoin ETF fund. Gemini Global Head of Business Development Dave Abner joined ""First Mover"" to explain the details of this collaboration and the prospect of a spot bitcoin ETF in the U.S. Plus, PWC executive and CryptoCapsules host Henri Arslanian discussed Elon Musk's purchase of Twitter. Ming Wu of Strips Finance discussed news of interest rates trading.
Fireblocks Sees $500M Stampede Into Terra DeFi in First Week: Pent-up demand for Terra’s ecosystem among Fireblocks’s early access program hedge funds and wealthy investors has been “crazy.”
Dogecoin, ApeCoin See Higher-Than-Usual Liquidations in Volatile Trading: Futures tracking the two tokens notched up nearly $35 million in losses for traders.
DEX Protocol 0x Labs Raises $70M From Greylock, OpenSea and Jared Leto: Report: 0x was tapped last week to power Coinbase’s (COIN) new NFT marketplace.
Bitcoin Miner CleanSpark Raises $35M in Equipment-Backed Debt From Trinity Capital: Equipment-based financing is becoming an increasingly popular option for mining firms to fund their growth.
NFL Draft Goes NFT: Football League Releases New Collection on Polygon: The league says its official NFT platform is still in its “test and learn” phase, but has seen promising results since launching in November.
The Pitfalls of 'Community-as-Company': When a faulty smart contract cost the Akutars NFT collection nearly $35 million, project leaders said they'd bail it out.
Today's crypto explainer: China Crypto Bans: A Complete History
Other voices: How Elon Musk Won Twitter (The Wall Street Journal)
The move [to allow 401(k)s to invest in bitcoin] is the latest in the line of bitcoin-centric products and offerings by Fidelity, which was one of the first major firms to warm up to the then-rising asset class in 2018. (CoinDesk reporter Shaurya Malwa) ... In response to [China President Xi Jinping’s] call to rev up growth, Chinese government agencies are discussing plans to accelerate big construction projects, especially in the manufacturing, technology, energy and food sectors, as well as to issue coupons to individuals to spur consumer spending, the people said. (The Wall Street Journal) ... Crypto-assets are bringing about instability and insecurity – the exact opposite of what they promised. They are creating a new Wild West. To quote Littlefinger from “Game of Thrones,” “chaos is a ladder.” The story does not end well for this character. However, it only takes a few to climb high on the ladder – even if their gains are only temporary – to convince many others that they are missing out. (European Central Bank Executive Board Member Fabio Panetta)"
65,359,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/26/dogecoin-apecoin-see-higher-than-usual-liquidations-in-volatile-trading/,"Dogecoin, ApeCoin See Higher-Than-Usual Liquidations in Volatile Trading",Futures tracking the two tokens notched up nearly $35 million in losses for traders.,2022-04-26,"Volatile trading on futures tracking the dogecoin (DOGE) and ApeCoin (APE) tokens resulted in millions of dollars in losses to liquidations, data from tracking tools shows.
Losses on DOGE futures exceeded $22.65 million in the past 24 hours while losses on APE futures exceeded $11.77 million. The figures were higher than on other days, the data show.
Among the DOGE losses some 68.9% were from shorts, or traders betting against higher prices. Prices surged to as much as $0.17 from Monday’s $0.12 low, and are still 32% higher than Monday.
The price jump in DOGE seemed to arise mainly in the hours before the announcement of Tesla (TSLA) CEO Elon Musk's acquisition of social media giant Twitter (TWTR) in a $44 billion deal.
No direct link between the two events exists, but some market observers say Musk could use his influence to include DOGE as a payment method on Twitter. Tesla already accepts the meme coin as a payment option for its merchandise.
APE futures saw $7.9 million in losses from short trades, representing 67% of the total. APE traded at the $17 level in European afternoon hours on Monday, rising to nearly $20 in early Asian hours today. Prices have since dropped back to the $17.88 level.
The rise in APE prices came as the community discussed staking features for the native token of the Bored Ape Yacht Club ecosystem, a collection of 10,000 non-fungible token Apes that has become one of the biggest NFT projects by popularity and market capitalization in the past year.
The proposal weighs the benefits of allowing participants to stake APE and use the Bored Ape Yacht Club ecosystem NFTs to receive APE rewards from a preset pool over a set period of time.
APE rose even as BAYC’s official Instagram handle was exploited late on Monday, resulting in some $3 million in losses, as reported. An unofficial ""mint"" link was sent out by the Instagram account to unsuspecting followers, with the wallets of those who clicked the link being compromised.
The futures losses on APE and DOGE futures contributed to over $200 million in overall liquidations as the broader market rallied by some 3.2% in the past 24 hours. Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) regained previous support levels after dropping below them over the weekend, while Terra’s LUNA surged 10%."
66,99,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/04/26/fireblocks-sees-500m-stampede-into-terra-defi-in-first-week/,Fireblocks Sees $500M Stampede Into Terra DeFi in First Week,Pent-up demand for Terra’s ecosystem among Fireblocks’ early access program hedge funds and wealthy investors has been “crazy.”,2022-04-26,"Cryptocurrency custody specialist Fireblocks said institutional customers stampeded into decentralized finance (DeFi) after it gave them access to Terra, the blockchain ecosystem and issuer of UST, the largest stablecoin behind tether and USDC.
Fireblocks CEO Michael Shaulov said pent-up demand from members of the company’s early access program, including crypto hedge funds, venture capital firms and high net worth individuals, has been “crazy.”
“Once we released the capability to access DeFi on Terra, we’ve seen this kind of crazy demand,” Shaulov said in an interview with CoinDesk. “So over $250 million was deployed in the first 72 hours, and I think it’s exactly a week now and there’s been half a billion dollars of transactions into Terra from our platform.”
The current Terra DeFi access for Fireblocks clients is fully permissionless and is not part of the custody firm’s know-your-customer (KYC) whitelisted DeFi pooling system, recently announced with Aave Arc. That could be in the cards further down the line, Shaulov said.
Founded by South Korea-based Terraform Labs back in 2018, and built on the Cosmos “internet of blockchains,” Terra has grown rapidly from an initial cross-border payments crypto in the form of the LUNA token, to span stablecoins, DeFi, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and gaming. Fireblocks began working with Terra as far back as December 2020.
Terra boasts some 4 million unique wallets and has seen 400% user growth in the past two years, with over $30 billion of total locked value, according to DeFiLama.
The expansion has seen the project look to bolster the algorithmic UST stablecoin (a smart contract keeps the price anchored to $1 by burning LUNA tokens in order to mint new UST tokens) by buying $1.6 billion reserves of bitcoin (BTC), and pledging to purchase a further $10 billion.
Still, grafting bitcoin reserves onto UST’s algorithmic stablecoin apparatus has been flagged up as a cause for concern by some financial experts. Fireblocks’ Shaulov said his custody platform is not involved in Terra’s bitcoin treasury management – which is overseen by the Luna Foundation Guard – but he takes a philosophical view when it comes to risk and innovation.
“Fireblocks’ mission is to provide secure access to well informed investors who have done their due diligence, follow that demand and understand where innovation is heading,” Shaulov said. “You don’t need me to say the model around stablecoins and specifically what Terra is doing is somewhat experimental. If you’re asking me if there is a place for this innovation around stablecoins, I think that the answer to that is yes.”"
67,129,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/27/dogecoin-terra-fall-steepest-among-majors-as-long-traders-lose-280m/,"Dogecoin, Terra Fall Steepest Among Major Cryptos as Long Traders Lose $280M",Digital assets lost 3.5% in capitalization over the past 24 hours but gradually recovered during European morning hours on Wednesday.,2022-04-27,"Declining sentiment for cryptocurrencies stemming from a poor economic outlook in broader markets led to a market-wide decline on Tuesday that caused hundreds of millions of dollars in losses for traders betting on higher prices, data shows.
Bitcoin (BTC) lost support at the pivotal $40,000 level on Tuesday evening, dropping to as low as $38,121 on Wednesday morning before a nominal increase during Asian trading hours. Ether (ETH) fell below $3,000 to as low as $2,781.
A fall in bitcoin and ether led to steep declines in other major assets. In the past 24 hours, dogecoin (DOGE) fell 10% after a two-day rally, while Terra’s LUNA dropped 7.2%. BNB Chain’s BNB and Solana’s SOL emerged as outperformers, falling just 2% as other assets fell at least 4%.
Some $281 million worth of “longs” were lost to liquidations on crypto-tracked futures, representing 81% of all futures trades in the past 24 hours. Liquidations in the crypto market happen when a trader has insufficient funds to fund a margin call – or a call for extra collateral demanded by the exchange to keep the trading position funded.
Overall, liquidations in the crypto market exceeded $350 million, the third-largest level in April. Over $128 million of that came from bitcoin-tracked futures, while $92 million arose from ether futures. Futures tracking dogecoin lost $24 million, which was similar to Tuesday’s loss.
The market-wide decline in cryptocurrencies on Tuesday arose amid falling optimism in the broader financial markets.
China continued to battle coronavirus outbreaks, leading to a fall in Asian markets, while the U.S. Federal Reserve inched closer to a key meeting next week, one that is expected to bring forth a big interest rate hike to tighten monetary policy in the country.
Russian troubles roiled equities in Europe. Reports suggest the country may cut gas supplies to the region, which may choke growth and stifle local economies. Russia has already cut off supply to Poland and Bulgaria, leading to a surge in European gas prices.
Sentiment, however, seemed to stabilize on Wednesday. Equities indexes in Europe were up since the open, with Stoxx 600 and Germany’s DAX rising 0.29%. S&P 500 and Nasdaq futures rose 1%, and the Shanghai Composite gained 2.5% as China vowed more infrastructure projects to bolster the local economy.
A relief in Asian and European markets saw bitcoin slightly recover, adding $500 since Asian morning hours on Wednesday. But failing to regain the $40,000 level could prove bearish for bitcoin, according to some analysts.
“Bitcoin has abruptly fallen below a critical support line, a bearish signal,” Alex Kuptsikevich, senior financial analyst at FxPro, wrote in an email to CoinDesk. “At the same time, the uptrend breakdown failed to be confirmed by buying near previous local lows.”
Kuptsikevich, however, noted institutional investors withdrew considerably less capital from crypto exchanges compared with the previous week, citing CoinShares data. “The net outflow of funds last week was $7.2 million, although it was down from the previous two weeks when investors withdrew more than $231 million,” he said."
68,84,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/27/luna-supply-drops-to-all-time-low-but-dont-call-it-deflationary/,LUNA Supply Drops to All-Time Low – But Don’t Call It Deflationary,"To keep up with the demand for Terra’s UST stablecoin, LUNA tokens are burned to maintain the $1 peg. All things being equal, less supply could help to support the price.",2022-04-27,"The supply of LUNA, the native token of the Terra blockchain, fell to an all-time low level on Tuesday – a price-boosting dynamic that's seen by crypto analysts as an indicator of how popular the project remains despite nagging concerns about its sustainability.
A lower supply of LUNA has helped to bolster the token's price in cryptocurrency markets; the price hit an all-time high of $119 on April 5.
“This results in a large price movement for the LUNA asset, as there is not only significant buying but also significant supply reduction,"" said Dustin Teander, analyst at blockchain data platform Messari. ""Both forces push the LUNA price higher, leading us to where we are now.”
The Terra blockchain, founded and developed by South Korea-based Terraform Labs, has expanded rapidly from its roots as a crypto payment protocol for online purchases to new ventures in decentralized finance (DeFi), gaming and non-fungible tokens (NFTs). In the process, Terra’s native token LUNA and algorithmic stablecoin UST have leapt into the ranks of the top performing cryptocurrencies in 2022. The project also has drawn scrutiny about how sustainable its growth is.
The fate of LUNA’s price is closely linked to UST, as the LUNA token is essential to keep the price of Terra’s UST anchored to $1. The pricing mechanism to preserve the peg is built using an algorithm – an incentive for traders to step in and bring back the price to the peg – that permanently destroys and creates LUNA tokens to balance supply and demand for UST tokens.
When UST is above $1, LUNA is burned to mint UST. Similarly, if demand is low for UST and the price falls below $1, UST is burned to mint LUNA.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
The demand for UST has exploded, sending its market capitalization to $18 billion from $2 billion in a year as depositors flocked to the Anchor protocol, a lending and saving project built on Terra that has a market-beating 19.5% annual yield.
“In order to get the 20% yield, people needed to acquire UST, which involved first acquiring LUNA and burning it for UST,” Teander said.
Still, it does not make LUNA a deflationary asset.
If UST demand stalls and investors flee the Terra ecosystem, UST will be burned to keep up the price peg, diluting the supply of LUNA.
University of Calgary law professor Ryan Clements said to CoinDesk TV that Terra’s growth is likely “unsustainable,” calling all algorithmic stablecoins “inherently unstable” in a research paper.
In an extreme situation, the resulting sell-off in LUNA could trigger a downward spiral causing UST to lose its peg, sending shock waves to other parts of the cryptocurrency market, some analysts have warned.
Read more: Bailout Fund, Backstop or Bouncy Ball? Here's How LFG's Bitcoin 'Reserve' Might Work
This year so far, LUNA’s price has held up relatively well during a time when most cryptocurrencies have struggled, as red-hot inflation, rate hikes and geopolitical uncertainties drive investors to sell risky assets from stocks to bitcoin.
Since Jan. 1, LUNA slid by only 2.8%, while bitcoin dropped 18% and several major altcoins, such as solana (SOL) and cardano (ADA), lost about 40% of their value.
On Tuesday, LUNA jumped briefly to the sixth-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization and fourth behind bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and binance coin (BNB) excluding stablecoins, according to price tracker portal CoinGecko."
69,354,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/04/27/first-mover-asia-trading-on-indian-crypto-exchange-continues-to-slump-following-new-tax-laws-cryptos-higher/,First Mover Asia: Indian Crypto Exchanges' Trading Volume Continues to Dive Following New Tax Law; Cryptos Higher,WazirX and CoinDcx volumes were less than a third of their levels prior to the regulations going into effect; bitcoin and ether rise.,2022-04-27,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Major cryptos took a turn upward but whether prices continue in the same direction is questionable.
Insights: Trading volumes on leading Indian crypto exchanges have plunged since the introduction of new taxes.
Technician's take: BTC remains in a tight trading range, with a loss of upside momentum.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $39,207 +2.2%
Ether (ETH): $2,887 +1.9%
Bitcoin, ether take a short turn for the better
Once more, without conviction.
After five days of wayward performances, bitcoin finally took a turn upward, but analysts questioned whether the latest rally would have any staying power amid a predictably disappointing start to quarterly earnings, monetary hawkishness and macroeconomic precariousness.
Bitcoin appears to be ""falling out of the window, but latching onto the windowsill,"" Alex Kuptsikevich, an analyst at FxPro, wrote in an email to CoinDesk.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just over $39,200, up over 2% over the last 24 hours. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $2,880, a more than 1.9% gain over the same period. Trading volume and volatility remained at low levels as investors continued to grapple with the toxic combination of rising prices and uncertainty.
Other major cryptos were mostly in the green, albeit not by much, although a big improvement over the previous day when a number of them plunged. On Wednesday, ATOM was among the brightest spots, rising more than 5% at one point. The increase came after Evmos, the EVM-Compatible Cosmos Chain, said that it was relaunching with new tools for users looking to claim airdropped tokens.
Crypto prices dovetailed with major equity markets, which broke a recent losing streak to post small gains. Gold, a traditional safe-haven investment fell over 1% amid the at-least temporary move to riskier assets.
Quarterly earnings among many big brands continued to disappoint. Facebook parent Meta (FB) fell short on its projections for revenue and earnings per share for its first quarter, and the social media giant posted a nearly $3 billion loss on its augmented/virtual reality unit. Meta shares have fallen over 40% since January.
Bad news continued to flow from Ukraine, where the Russian military bludgeoned major Ukraine cities and cut off gas exports to former Soviet Union satellites Poland and Bulgaria, threatening to widen the conflict.
Still, some crypto observers were optimistic about a more permanent rebound in digital asset markets.
""If you zoom out, there's some good, positive factors and tailwinds hitting the industry,"" Chris Perkins, president of CoinFund, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""We're seeing that crypto markets have been resilient among some other payments in the tech sector. We're seeing strong trends from a policy perspective. We're seeing the left and right coming together and agreeing that we need to have really strong, principle-based policy.""
Perkins added: ""I talk to traditional investment managers all the time. When I left finance, they were all trying to get [into crypto], but now they're trying to get in even faster.""
S&P 500: 4,183 +0.2%
DJIA: 33,301 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 12,488 -.01%
Gold: 1,885 -1.1%
Tough times for Indian exchanges
Indian crypto exchanges have seen trading volumes slump some 60% since new regulations around the rising sector kicked into force earlier this month, as per local reports and data from tracking tools.
WazirX and CoinDCX, two Mumbai-based exchanges, recorded volumes of just over $27 million in the past 24 hours. For WazirX, this is a steep haircut from average daily trading volumes of above $90 million before the new regulations took effect. Volumes on ZebPay, among the country’s oldest exchanges, hover around $12 million.
India, which has taken something of an anti-crypto stance, levied a 30% tax on profits from crypto transactions on April 1 and said it won’t allow offsetting gains with losses from other crypto transactions. Local crypto volumes dropped almost immediately afterward.
For several crypto investors, a 30% tax represents a steep cut into profits. In a country where the average monthly wage is just $437, every penny paid in taxes is a hefty blow to budding investors.
Indians have taken to social media to express their displeasure. The #reducecryptotax hashtag on Twitter has been trending in the country among crypto circles, with some stating hefty taxes can even lead to an exodus of talent.
“For lot of us, blockchain or #bitcoin is Plan B,” Sathvik Vishwanath, founder of local exchange Unocoin, tweeted on Wednesday. “The industry is giving opportunities in India like developed countries give. Govt should not curtail this through unfair taxes. #reducecryptotax.”
Meanwhile, some expect the drop in volumes to be short term.
""AAX exchange has seen an outflow of active Indian users within the past weeks, as well,” Anton Gulin, regional director of AAX crypto exchange, told CoinDesk in an email earlier this month. “However, I believe that the tax rate may be revised to attract more taxpayers, as this is the ultimate goal for any government.”
Bitcoin Bounces From $37K Support; Resistance at $40K-$43K
Bitcoin (BTC) held support at $37,500 following a 5% decline over the past week.
Selling pressure appears to be stabilizing over the short term, although upside momentum could slow around the $40,000-$43,000 resistance zone.
BTC was trading around $39,000 at press time and is up by 2% over the past 24 hours. Buyers will need to keep prices elevated above $40,000 in order to sustain the recovery phase.
Still, there has been a slight loss of upside momentum over the past few days, which means BTC will likely remain in a tight trading range until a breakout or breakdown is confirmed. For now, most technical indicators are neutral.
Crypto Bahamas conference with investors, developers and other blockchain leaders
Twitter first-quarter 2022 earnings
11 a.m. HKT/SGT(3 a.m. UTC): Bank of Japan interest rate decision
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Trading Below $40K After 5% Decline, Framework Ventures Doubling Down on Web 3 Gaming and DeFi
Live from Crypto Bahamas: ""First Mover"" host Christine Lee was joined by CoinFund President Chris Perkins with a look at crypto markets, and Mary-Catherine Lader of Uniswap discussed the company's Swap Widget launch. Plus, Vance Spencer, Framework Ventures co-founder, shared his investment strategy in Web 3 gaming and DeFi.
Meta Reports Loss of $3B on Augmented/Virtual Reality Operations in Q1: The company formerly known as Facebook reported revenue of $695 million in the quarter for the recently broken-out division.
EU Crypto Laundering Plans Could Overwhelm Authorities, Bank Regulator Says: Officials urged lawmakers to think again as they approach the last stage of privacy-busting proposals.
Edward Snowden Played Key Role in Zcash Privacy Coin’s Creation: The NSA whistleblower and privacy advocate was one of six participants in the cryptocurrency’s fabled 2016 “trusted setup” ceremony, using a pseudonym.
LUNA Supply Drops to All-Time Low – But Don’t Call It Deflationary: To keep up with the demand for Terra’s UST stablecoin, LUNA tokens are burned to maintain the $1 peg. All things being equal, less supply could help to support the price.
Central Bank of Cuba to License Digital Asset Service Providers: Licenses will be valid for one year and may be extended for an additional year, the bank announced Tuesday.
Can Crypto Deliver on Private Transactions in Cashless World?: From personal autonomy to zk-Snarks – the tools and actions that might ensure privacy in this increasingly digital age.
Today's crypto explainer: Solana
Other voices: Fellow North Carolina Republican calls for insider trading probe of Rep. Madison Cawthorn’s crypto holdings (CNBC)
""However, it takes time for the decentralized network to reach consensus about new transactions and add them to the blockchain. As a result, base blockchain transaction speeds and throughput are not sufficient to support global payments."" (Julie Landrum, head of strategy and growth at OpenNode, for CoinDesk) ... ""On its own, Russia’s move will likely have only a limited impact on European supplies – especially in Poland, which already was planning to end reliance on Russian exports by the end of this year. But bigger European economies, such as Germany’s and Italy’s, could experience shortages if Russia turns off supplies, and the growing possibility of that scenario sent prices higher, analysts said. Most European countries have rejected Russia’s demand for ruble payments."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
70,355,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/01/first-mover-asia-singapores-distaste-for-retail-crypto-is-spooking-institutional-money/,First Mover Asia: Singapore’s Distaste for Retail Crypto Spooks Institutional Money,Three Arrows Capital's decision last week to move its headquarters to Dubai reflects growing concerns about the city-state's increasing regulatory scrutiny of crypto; bitcoin returns to where it started the weekend.,2022-05-01,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin returned to where it started the weekend.
Insights: Singapore's growing crypto regulatory scrutiny has raised concerns among institutional investors.
Technician's take: BTC's trading range could persist into the following week.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $38,594 +2.2%
Ether (ETH): $2,844 +3.9%
Bitcoin investors continued their recent dour mood this weekend amid macroeconomic uncertainty and a widely expected, half-point interest rate hike by the U.S. central bank this week.
The largest cryptocurrency by market cap was recently trading at about $38,400, up 2.2% for the past 24 hours, but approximately where it started the weekend. Bitcoin finished April down 17%, its worst month yet in a ragged 2022 for cryptos.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, followed a similar weekend pattern and was trading at roughly $2,840, up about 3.9% over the previous day but little changed from late Friday. Most other major cryptos were recently rising. Terra's luna token and SOL climbed over 5% and 7%, respectively at one point. Popular meme coin DOGE jumped nearly 6%. Trading was light as is often the case on weekends.
""At the moment, there are no major bullish catalysts on the horizon and BTC is likely to grind in this range or break down lower before more aggressive accumulation can begin,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk. ""The lack of bullish catalysts is still evident and U.S. equities have shown weakness as well as the U.S. dollar index rose. All these factors continue to weigh down BTC.""
DiPasquale noted that the Federal Reserve's likely decision to try to tame inflation through a more hawkish rate increase ""could result in price volatility."" The Fed is also expected to explain how it will reduce its portfolio of mortgage and Treasury securities, which ballooned to $9 trillion during the pandemic.
Crypto declines in recent days have largely dovetailed with major stock indexes as investors veer away from riskier assets. The tech-heavy Nasdaq plunged 4% on Friday. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average were off 3.6% and 2.7%, respectively. Gold was up slightly. The Nasdaq 100, an index of mostly tech, biotech and health-care companies, plummeted 13% in April.
Economic growth has slowed worldwide, a result of Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. On Friday, the European Union reported that the economies of 19 countries that use the euro grew by just 0.2% during the first quarter. The news followed the announcement that the U.S. economy had grown by a sluggish 0.4% over the same period. Rising energy prices and supply chain delays exacerbated by the Russian offensive have hampered businesses worldwide.
With bitcoin failing to hold the $42,000 level last week, DiPasquale was measured in his expectations for the coming days. ""We have continued to see $38K levels acting as support but continued testing of this range may result in a breakdown toward $35K-$32K,"" he wrote, adding: ""Bulls will want to see the bleeding stop and serious buyers stepping in before they can be confident of a trend reversal.""
S&P 500: 4,131 -3.6%
DJIA: 32,977 -2.7%
Nasdaq: 12,334 -4.1%
Gold: $1,896 +.08%
Three Arrows Capital is the latest crypto firm that’s decided to call Singapore quits and move to Dubai.
“The energy in Dubai’s digital asset industry is electric right now,” fund co-founder Su Zhu told CoinDesk during the Crypto Bahamas conference. “We have decided to move our Three Arrows headquarters to Dubai, and I’m looking forward to meeting more technology startups.”
“For a while, Singapore was making pro-crypto decisions, but now something’s changed course,” added Kyle Davies, the fund’s other co-founder.
To be sure, on paper Singapore hasn’t advanced any new rules that would affect a fund like Three Arrows Capital. The government has been clear that its policy position is to create a “conducive environment for such activities to flourish in Singapore.”
But that is for institutional capital. The Monetary Authority of Singapore has also been clear that it doesn’t approve of retail investors getting deeply involved in crypto.
“We have taken a tough line on unfettered access to retail public because retail investors should not be dabbling in cryptocurrencies. Many global regulators share similar concerns about retail exposure to cryptocurrencies,” Ravi Menon, the agency’s managing director, said in a recent interview, adding that it has granted retail crypto licenses but they come with strict terms and conditions.
Funds like Three Arrows Capital don’t deal directly with retail crypto, as they aren’t open to non-institutional or non-accredited investment.
So why the long face?
It might have something to do with DeFiance Capital, one of Three Arrows’ peers in the city.
In March, DeFiance Capital was placed on an Investor Alert List by MAS. DeFiance Capital isn’t sure why that happened, and MAS won’t give CoinDesk a clear answer.
Putting a fund on an investor alert list, which has negative connotations, and not explaining the reasoning, isn’t a good look.
It also might be the beginning of problems in doing business in Singapore.
Visas for foreign staff are increasingly difficult to attain, and the logical narrative of the city being a massive beneficiary of Hong Kong’s capital and talent flight isn’t necessarily shaping up with those in traditional finance also looking at Dubai as the next hub instead of Singapore.
At the same time, Dubai is making the relocation process as easy as possible with visas sponsored by the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) special economic zone processed in less than a week. Plus, the DIFC has a parallel legal system
Bitcoin Momentum Weakens; Support at $35K-$37K
Bitcoin is testing support at around its 100-week moving average, although upside momentum has slowed over the past month. The cryptocurrency could remain in a wide trading range until a decisive breakout or breakdown occurs.
BTC is on track for an 18% decline this month and is down about 40% from its all-time high of nearly $69,000 reached in November.
Most technical indicators are neutral on the daily and weekly chart and bearish on the monthly chart. That could increase the risk of a breakdown in price, especially if support at $37,500 fails to hold.
A series of higher price lows since Jan. 24 has supported buying activity on dips. Still, resistance at $46,710 has capped rallies over the past three months.
For now, BTC is on watch for a countertrend reversal signal next week, per the DeMARK indicators, which typically precedes a brief upswing in price.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 UTC): Jibun (Japan) Bank manufacturing PMI (April)
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia and New Zealand Banking Group job advertisements (April)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan consumer confidence index (April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""The Hash"" on CoinDesk TV:
Ukraine Launches Website for NFT Donations, Panama Passes Crypto Law and More
Earlier this week, ""The Hash"" hosts discussed top stories, including the Ukrainian government's new initiative to use NFT (non-fungible token) donations in the war against Russia, Panama's new crypto law and private equity investment firm Apollo's new hire for its digital asset division.
Swiss National Bank Owns No Bitcoin, but Could Buy in the Future, Chairman Says: While bitcoin today doesn't meet norms for currency reserves, said Thomas Jordan, there's no technical bar to purchases.
Please Don’t Buy a 'KYC’d' Wallet for the Bored Apes Team’s Otherside Mint: Yuga Labs’ long awaited “Otherside” NFT sale has spawned a secondary market for specially registered Ethereum addresses. Caveat emptor.
Dubai Real Estate Developer to Accept Crypto Payments Amid UAE Push for Crypto Hub Status: Several of the world's biggest crypto exchanges have flocked to the emirates in the last few months.
NFT Subscriptions Are Better Paywalls: Turning subscriptions into a bearer asset is better for everyone, says our media columnist. This article is part of CoinDesk's Payments Week.
Bitcoin Payments Remain in Their Infancy but There Are Green Shoots Everywhere: Can cryptocurrencies, stablecoins and CBDCs coexist as methods of payment? Industry leaders shine a light on the future of crypto payments. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Payments Week.
How Human-Centered Design Can Fix Crypto Payments: Web 3 should steal design ideas from Web 2, Grace “Ori” Kwan says in a CoinDesk Payments Week op-ed.
Today's crypto explainer: How to Stake LUNA on the Terra Protocol
Other voices: Crypto Is Winning, and Bitcoin Diehards Are Furious About It (The Verge)
""There’s a fascinating discussion to be had about whether what Hwang did was full-blown fraud, but I won’t bother trying to outdo Matt Levine on that front. Instead, I want to focus on the financial mechanics of what Archegos was up to, and why it’s extremely important for cryptocurrency holders or traders to understand."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""Yet, that surface-level assessment misses some striking new adoption trends that aren’t easily apparent to mainstream commentators. Minorities and various other marginalized groups are turning to crypto as a tool and developing unique, new innovative uses for it – often at a faster pace than communities that have traditionally had more privileged access to resources. This experience demands a careful approach to fostering diversity. We must not throw the baby out with the bathwater."" (CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey) ... ""The broad selloff has erased trillions of dollars in market value from the tech-heavy gauge, with investors souring on shares of everything from software and semiconductor companies to social-media giants."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""The closings and demands for constant checks and vigilance, especially in Shanghai, have ignited public frustration, exhausted local officials and medical workers, and sapped economic momentum."" (The New York Times)
CORRECTED (May 2, 06:21 UTC): Corrects name of Three Arrow co-founder in the third graph of the ""Insights"" sub-header."
71,206,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/05/market-wrap-cryptos-and-stocks-fall-luna-foundation-guard-accumulates-bitcoin/,"Market Wrap: Cryptos and Stocks Fall, Luna Foundation Guard Accumulates Bitcoin","BTC declined by as much as 10% on Thursday, its largest price drop in two months.",2022-05-05,"Sellers returned in full force on Thursday, sending both stocks and cryptos lower. The risk-off tone among market participants has been a dominant theme this year despite short-term price swings.
Bitcoin (BTC), the world's largest crypto by market cap, dropped by as much as 10%, reversing Wednesday's rise toward $40,000. The decline Thursday was the largest price drop in two months.
Meanwhile, alternative cryptos (altcoins) such as Solana's SOL token and Avalanche's AVAX token saw similar declines of about 10% over the past 24 hours. Popular meme coins such as Dogecoin's DOGE and Shiba Inu's SHIB declined by 5% and 7%, respectively.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Bitcoin's selling volume isn't as extreme relative to previous price downturns. That suggests further downside is likely before sellers capitulate. Technical indicators point to further downside toward the $30,000-$32,000 support zone as momentum weakens.
And in the futures market, a large amount of open interest was added to the market during Wednesday's rally. During Thursday's sell-off, almost all of that open interest was closed out, according to Glassnode, a crypto data provider.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $36,260, −8.86%
●Ether (ETH): $2,726, −7.60%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,148, −3.55%
●Gold: $1,880 per troy ounce, +0.69%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.07%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
The chart below shows the spike in long BTC liquidations over the past 24 hours, which reached the highest level since April 10.
Liquidations occur when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position as a safety mechanism due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. That happens primarily in futures trading, which only tracks asset prices, as opposed to spot trading, where traders own the actual assets.
Selling intensified later during the New York trading day, which pushed bitcoin below $36,000. That triggered an uptick in long liquidations. From a technical perspective, the sharp price drop rejected support at $37,500, which was the lower end of a three-month price range.
Over the past month, option traders were actively hedging against further price drops and purchasing front-month volatility contracts. That contributed to a bearish tone among market participants, which preceded the current sell-off.
On the flip side, it appears that selling pressure was met with renewed buying interest from the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG).
On Thursday, the foundation reported that it has acquired $1.5 billion in bitcoin to bolster the reserves of its Terra (LUNA) stablecoin. The purchase was conducted using over-the-counter swaps, which included one billion TerraUSD (UST) for $1 billion worth of BTC. Afterward, the foundation purchased an additional $500 million worth of BTC.
The newly acquired BTC brings the LFG’s total holdings to about 80,394 bitcoins, worth just shy of $3 billion. LFG aims to have accumulated a total of $10 billion in stablecoin reserves before the end of the third quarter.
""From the flows side, we are also watching progress on the Mt. Gox settlement to see when bitcoin payments totaling about $7 billion-$8 billion could potentially arrive in the market, which could be as early as the second half of 2022 or delayed until 2023,"" David Duong, head of institutional research at Coinbase, wrote in a report earlier this week.
""This could potentially be offset by purchases of bitcoin (or other tokens) to shore up stablecoin reserves, comparable to the LFG flows we saw in March and early April,"" Duong wrote.
Theoretically, persistent buying from LFG and others could absorb recent selling among traders.
Dogecoin, Shiba Inu underperform broader crypto market despite fundamental growth: The tokens of dogecoin and shiba inu fell by an average of 1.6% in the past 24 hours. The relative underperformance came even as both ecosystems saw fundamental growth in their underlying communities. DOGE was used to fund the purchase of a controlling stake in BIG3 league basketball team Aliens, and Shiba Inu developers started allowing community members to use SHIB for minting virtual land on Shiba Inu’s new metaverse. Read more here.
Solana Pay adds customized transaction requests for merchants: Solana Pay will facilitate transaction requests between merchants and users with a feature that went live on the platform this week, according to a post by Solana developers. Developers added the transaction request feature to allow merchants to provide customized transaction links to users, such as unique non-fungible tokens (NFTs) or virtual gifts. Read more here.
Listen 🎧: The CoinDesk ""Markets Daily"" podcast takes a deeper dive into Wednesday’s Fed policy announcement and discusses what a bunch of apes can tell us about the NFT market.
Bankoff’s Crypto Wallets Nearly Empty After Virtual Debit Card Provider Folds: The Delaware-registered company said Visa and Stripe cut it off for serving too many Russians, but on-chain data has stoked users' suspicions.
US House Panel to Weigh FTX Proposal on Clearing Customers’ Swaps Trades: As the CFTC is still considering an application from FTX.US, lawmakers will examine the potential trend at hearing.
Luna Foundation Guard Acquires $1.5B in Bitcoin to Reinforce Stablecoin Reserves: The purchase brings LFG's holdings to more than 80,000 bitcoins, or nearly $3 billion.
Bitcoin Plunges Most in Two Months Amid Stock Market Selloff: Bitcoin dropped more than 7% on Thursday. The price drop appeared synced with a broad selloff in stocks and bonds.
Elizabeth Warren Echoes Labor Dept. Concerns About Fidelity’s Plan for Bitcoin in 401(k) Retirement Plans: In a joint letter with Sen. Tina Smith, Warren asked Fidelity ""about the appropriateness"" of its plans.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
72,158,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/08/ust-briefly-loses-peg-luna-drops-10/,"UST Stablecoin Briefly Loses Peg, Luna Drops 10%",The Saturday event led to questions about whether Terra’s bitcoin reserves will soon face their first test,2022-05-08,"The closely watched TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin briefly lost its dollar peg on Saturday, May 7, falling to $0.987 before bouncing back on Sunday. Its sister token, LUNA, fell 10%.
As the largest algorithmic stablecoin, UST has emerged as a major – albeit controversial – backbone of the crypto economy.
UST's loss of its $1 peg this weekend wasn't the first or the largest ""depegging"" event in Terra’s history, but it marks the first time the algorithmic stablecoin has fallen below $1 since it embarked on its much-publicized bid to build out its bitcoin and avalanche reserves.
Losing the peg didn't cause Terra to tap into its bitcoin reserves on Saturday, as the deployment of hundreds of millions of dollars of rescue capital appeared enough to buoy the token back to around $1.
The depegging appeared to kick off with a series of major withdrawals from Anchor Protocol, a lending market that offers high yields to users who deposit UST. Over the weekend, Anchor’s total UST deposits fell from $14 billion to $11.2 billion (UST’s total circulating supply is $18 billion).
Large quantities of UST were also withdrawn from liquidity pools on Curve, a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform that allows users to swap between stable currencies like UST. A $150 million liquidity withdrawal came from Terra creators, Terraform Labs, which claimed Sunday that it made the withdrawal as it was preparing to shuffle around funds between pools, but it redeposited $100 million after realizing UST had begun to trade a discount relative to other stablecoins.
Adding a tinge of conspiracy to Saturday’s events, a single wallet also raised eyebrows for dumping $84 million worth of UST on the Ethereum blockchain and $108 million on the Binance crypto exchange. That led to calls from within the Terra community that the depeg was a “coordinated attack.”
Do Kwon, the outspoken founder of Terraform Labs, chimed in on Saturday with a series of jokes and jabs at “anons” circulating “fud” (fear, uncertainty and doubt).
At one point, Kwon tweeted out a chart with the claim that one wallet was responsible for 62% of Anchor withdrawals. He quickly deleted the tweet, presumably after realizing that the “62%” figure on his chart referred to all “other” wallets rather than one specific wallet.
After Kwon started tweeting on Saturday, a single wallet appeared to be intent on rescuing UST’s peg. In the span of around 10 minutes, the wallet swapped over $200 million of UST for tether in order to rebalance UST’s Curve pools thereby boosting its price. More swaps continued on Sunday morning as UST’s peg recovered.
Some have speculated that the savior wallet belongs to Jump Crypto, a financial firm with strong ties to Terra and Terraform Labs. Jump is the same firm that stepped in to backstop a $320 million exploit of Solana’s Wormhole bridge back in February.
UST relies on another token, LUNA, to keep its price of a dollar via a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanisms.
Read more: What Is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
Recently, Kwon has made headlines for using LUNA to buy bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as a way to partially back UST. That has been framed as a way to secure UST’s peg while maintaining decentralization, but the central role of Kwon and Terraform Labs in buying bitcoin has fueled claims that Terra is centralized.
Thus far there is no concrete link between UST and its BTC/AVAX reserves, which led to questions on Saturday around if or how the currencies could have been deployed to defend UST's peg. During this most recent event, the reserves have so far gone untouched.
UST and LUNA are currently the 9th and 10th largest cryptocurrencies by market cap according to CoinMarketCap.
Luna’s price has fallen 10% in the past 24 hours and is now worth $66 according to CoinGecko. UST has mostly recovered its peg and is now trading at $0.998."
73,356,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/09/first-mover-asia-did-nvidia-profit-from-crypto-mining-consider-its-manufacturing-partners-stocks-cryptos-have-a-rough-day/,First Mover Asia: Did Nvidia Profit From Crypto Mining? Consider Its Manufacturing Partners’ Stocks; Cryptos Have a Rough Day,The manufacturer of graphics processing units has been reluctant to acknowledge the role its products play in crypto mining; bitcoin and ether plummet.,2022-05-09,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos plummet.
Insights: Nvidia has a peevish relationship with the crypto industry.
Technician's take: BTC's breakdown is confirmed and upside appears limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,199 -8.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,305 -8.8%
Another difficult day for cryptos
And the beatdown goes on.
Bitcoin continued to spiral in Monday trading, dropping to levels it hasn't seen since early July and is at less than half its price in late November when it approached $70,000.
The euphoria of wider adoption and growing institutional interest coupled with growing awareness of blockchain-fueled projects has long since evaporated, replaced by fear of higher interest rates, geopolitical turmoil and a looming recession. The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently trading at just over $31,000 after dropping well below that threshold earlier in the day. But bitcoin's more than 8.5% plunge over the past 24 hours was better than most major cryptocurrencies fared on Monday as investors fled assets with even an inkling of risk. The riskier the asset the faster the exit.
Terra's LUNA token was off more than 30% over the same period after the Luna Foundation Guard, the Singapore-based, non-profit established to support the Terra network, tweeted that would loan $1.5 billion in bitcoin (BTC) and terraUSD (UST) to defend the peg of its algorithmic stablecoin to the U.S. dollar. CRO tumbled more than 16% at one point. ADA and DOT were off about 14%.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was more resilient, roughly mirroring BTC's more modest drop. Trading volume increased slightly, reflecting the pickup in sellers' activity, although it remained well off 2022 highs earlier in the year. The Fear & Greed index remained in the extreme fear range where it has spent the past month amid investors' growing concerns about inflation, central bank monetary hawkishness that could send the global economy into recession and the widening aftershocks of Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. Daily, weekly and monthly charts for bitcoin have all trended negative.
Crypto's bloodbath tracked steep declines in equity markets with the tech-focused Nasdaq dropping over 4.3% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 3.2% and nearly 2%, respectively. Even gold, a safe-haven asset that typically rises in stressful periods, declined 1.5%.
Mark Lurie, the CEO of crypto trading software provider Shipyard Software, noted the impact of Terra's announcement, but called it ""noise relative to the macro story"" that has sucked in ""growth assets,"" including Amazon (AMZN), Alphabet's (GOOG) Google and some of the biggest names in technology.
""This macro drop is probably for two converging reasons,""
Lurie wrote that the macro drop was due to rising interest rates that were making ""safer assets more attractive"" and pulling ""capital from growth stocks."" But he also highlighted the easing of pandemic restrictions that has reduced consumers' reliance on technology. ""Many people are returning to offline buying behaviors, hurting e-commerce and tech stocks that did the best during lockdowns,"" he wrote.
S&P 500: 3,991 -3.2%
DJIA: 32,245 -1.9%
Nasdaq: 11,623 -4.2%
Gold: $1,852 -1.5%
Here's why Nvidia downplayed its mining business
Nvidia (NVDA) has always had a testy relationship with crypto and its decision to re-write history cost the company $5.5 million.
In the late 2000s, its Graphics Processing Units (GPU), built primarily with gaming in mind, found a second life: Their ability to do parallel processing, used to create photo-realistic graphics for games, meant they could crunch through large amounts of data with ease, launching a new world of computing.
General Purpose GPU Compute, or GPGPU compute, is responsible for the AI and Big Data boom. These GPUs were a requirement for virtually every data center, and Nvidia’s stock rose like a rocket with this demand.
GPGPU also meant that GPUs were essential for mining crypto. First bitcoin and then ether.
As we all know, the demand caused a massive shortage of graphics cards throughout the first crypto boom of 2016-2018. Gamers and PC enthusiasts were annoyed because the latest gen cards were impossible to find, meaning that they had to game with yesterday’s tech.
And Nvidia did all it could to write this out of history. While Nvidia makes a specialized mining card, it strongly discourages mining with its regular gaming cards and tries to disable the ability to mine with them. This leads to a back and forth between the company and miners that try and break this lock.
Nvidia’s annoyance with mining also resulted in its downplaying the impact it had on its business in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings and attributing it to gaming.
This was a strange decision on Nvidia’s part because crypto’s fluctuations were easy to see on the stock prices of its graphics card manufacturing partners in Asia. Shipments of new high-end motherboards, a key component for PCs, didn’t seem to be in sync with the insatiable demand the market had for GPUs, suggesting it wasn’t high-end gaming PCs the market wanted but only one component.
While Nvidia designs the GPU at the core of a graphics card, companies in Taiwan manufacture the board these cards are attached to called a “graphics card” (sometimes called an add-in board by analysts).
Gigabyte, Micro-Star International (MSI), and Zotac (its parent is listed in Hong Kong as PC Partner Group) are some of the biggest names in the business. Usually, these are relatively boring stocks because they are manufacturing companies that are at the behest of chip designers like Nvidia.
It is Nvidia, not Gigabyte, that makes the proprietary and valuable part of a graphics card, and the relatively low income and profit margins for Gigabyte reflect this.
The fortunes of these companies changed during the crypto boom of 2017-2018. Miners then needed every graphics card they could get their hands on to profit from the then-nascent Ethereum protocol and its role in the initial coin offering (ICO) bubble.
Investors hungry for exposure to the market bought all the stock they could of Gigabyte, MSI (2377) and PC Partner (1263). The number of investment vehicles for crypto then were limited as registered crypto custodians didn’t exist at the time. In November 2017, Bloomberg specifically called out these stocks as opportunities for investors seeking a macro proxy for crypto.
Eventually, the ICO bubble burst and a crypto crash happened. Students of bitcoin’s history know that the crypto winter of 2018 was a particularly chilly one as prices dropped significantly and didn’t recover for a long time.
Gigabyte, MSI and PC Partner’s stocks deflated as fast as they rose. Demand from mining companies evaporated overnight, and analysts warned that these companies would be in a tough position with layoffs and restructuring. Nvidia called this a “crypto hangover” as it took a $23 billion write-down on excess inventory that it just couldn’t move. Nvidia-competitor AMD (AMD) had the same problem.
Although crypto’s material impact on Nvidia’s bottom line was patently clear to informed observers (it's not clear why the SEC is dealing with this only now), the company still tried to hide it. Its decision is likely because its data center and enterprise businesses proved to be stalwart pillars of revenue, and the company didn’t want investors to be spooked.
The question is, as we head into another crypto winter, will history repeat itself?
Bitcoin Under Pressure; Support at $27K-$30K
Bitcoin (BTC) confirmed a break below its short-term uptrend and is now targeting lower support at $27,000 and $30,000. Sellers could remain active given the loss of upside momentum on the daily, weekly and monthly charts.
BTC was down by as much as 11% over the past 24 hours and 20% over the past week.
Further, bitcoin is roughly 50% below its all-time high near $69,000, achieved in November of last year, compared to an 80% peak-to-trough decline during the 2018 crypto bear market. At this point, price action does not indicate a major cycle low.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is the most oversold since Jan. 24, which preceded a relief rally. This time, however, BTC is at risk of breaking below its year-long price range, which means buyers could continue to take profits on short-term recoveries.
Bitcoin miner CleanSpark first-quarter earnings
Coinbase first-quarter earnings
3 p.m. HKT/SGT(7 a.m. UTC): China new loans (April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin, Broader Crypto Slide Continues, Where’s the Bottom? LFG Lends $1.5B in BTC to Defend UST
What's going on in the crypto markets? ""First Mover"" dove into markets analysis with industry executives in key markets to discuss the reasons for the dramatic slide, how long it may continue and what to make of the latest news involving the stablecoin UST, which briefly lost its peg to the U.S. dollar over the weekend. Guests included Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten, Valkyrie Chief Investment Officer and co-founder Steven McClurg and Coinchange CEO Maxim Galash.
Bitcoin Funds Had Surprise Inflows as Markets Plunged: Some $45 million flowed into these funds in the week through May 6. Investors apparently bought the market dip.
Bitcoin Tumbles to Lowest Price Since July 2021 as Market Panic Grows: Cryptos slumped across the board all weekend and added to declines Monday morning as global equity markets swooned.
Coinbase Faces Q1 Earnings Challenge as Crypto Markets Weaken: Coinbase’s first-quarter results could see some soft spots as crypto prices continue to retreat.
Mark Zuckerberg Says Instagram Will Test NFTs Starting This Week: Meta (FB) is also working on 3D augmented reality NFTs that will be compatible with Instagram stories.
Luna Foundation Guard Lends $1.5B in BTC and UST for Stablecoin Peg: The move comes after UST briefly lost its peg to the U.S dollar over the weekend.
Why on Earth Would Land Be Scarce in the Metaverse?: With their “skeuomorphic” approach to real estate, Web 3 metaverse projects may have fallen into a trap of their own making.
Today's crypto explainer: Can Crypto Go Green? How to Invest in Eco-Friendly Cryptocurrencies
Other voices: Making money on crypto? Yes, the IRS expects a cut (CNN)
""The project never launched, partly because Facebook burned its reputation to the ground selling our data and potentially destabilizing democracy. So regulators worldwide acted on our behalf to say that Facebook – with its billions of users and foothold within the internet – couldn’t be trusted with a radical new attempt for currency design. [Nouriel] Roubini’s project is similarly ambitious – creating an alternative safe haven asset to U.S. Treasurys that also has “payment features.” It might also offer yield, making it more attractive to hold, although in a blog post, Roubini notes that USG’s fluctuating value may limit its use as a form of payment."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... ""Stocks will enter a bear market, at least by most conventional definitions, when the S&P 500 has dropped 20% from its last peak. As of Friday afternoon, the index had dropped nearly 14 percent from a Jan. 3 record. A 2.7% drop in late-morning trading on Monday meant the index was even closer to the bear market threshold now."" (The New York Times) ... ""Still, investors are parsing disparate data about the financial health of consumers and businesses. The U.S. economy shrank by 1.4% in the first quarter, the worst showing since early in the pandemic, in spring 2020. However, consumer and business spending remained strong. Bank executives have pointed to high spending in categories like travel and entertainment as reasons for optimism. Market volatility resulting from higher interest rates and the war in Ukraine have dinged big banks’ deal-making businesses. The market for initial public offerings has been largely shut down over the past several months."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
74,358,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/09/first-mover-americas-institutions-look-to-be-selling-btc-in-falling-market/,First Mover Americas: Institutions Look to Be Selling BTC in Falling Market,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 9, 2022.",2022-05-09,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. Here’s what’s happening this morning:
Market Moves: Macro headwinds continue to push bitcoin lower. A popular indicator suggests institutions are selling into a falling market. Two charts offer hope to battered bitcoin bulls.
And check out the CoinDesk TV show “First Mover,” hosted by Christine Lee, Emily Parker and Lawrence Lewitinn at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Eastern time.
Steven McClurg, chief investment officer and co-founder, Valkyrie
Cory Klippsten, CEO, Swan Bitcoin
Maxim Galash, CEO, Coinchange
It’s a new week but the same old story in financial markets. The U.S. dollar is again trading higher as macro headwinds weigh over stocks, bonds and cryptocurrencies.
Bitcoin (BTC), the top cryptocurrency by market value, traded at a 3 1/2-month low of $33,080 at press time, representing a 3% drop on the day, according to CoinDesk data.
""Investors are clearly concerned about the aggressive monetary policy from the Federal Reserve, as they will also begin Quantitative Tightening (removal of liquidity from the market) in June,"" Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at the U.K.-based digital asset broker GlobalBlock, said in an email.
Institutional selling
A popular indicator suggests institutions are selling into a falling market.
The ""Coinbase premium index,"" an indicator showing the spread between Coinbase's BTC/U.S. dollar (USD) pair and Binance's BTC/USDT pair involving the tether stablecoin, recently turned negative and fell to a 12-month low, according to data tracked by South Korea-based Cryptoquant.
""This [negative Coinbase premium] is telling as a greater percentage of institutions use Coinbase compared to retail, whereas the opposite is the case for Binance. Therefore, the price mismatch mentioned suggests institutions are not currently as interested as retail,"" Sotiriou said. ""This will be good to keep an eye on going forward and if/when this reverses it could coincide with some relief in the market or a reversal.""
CryptoQuant said in a quicktake blog, ""Usually, there is a Coinbase premium. This means that the bitcoin price on Coinbase is higher than on Binance. This was/is very important, because American institutions and HNW (High Net Worth) were trading mostly on Coinbase. However... in the latest few days it's negative. This indicates heavy selling on Coinbase Pro!""
Terra jitters
Programmable blockchain Terra's UST, the world's biggest decentralized stablecoin, lost its 1:1 dollar peg over the weekend after multi-million dollar UST sales on Curve and Binance and a series of significant withdrawals from Anchor Protocol, a lending market offering high yields to UST depositors.
The depegging perhaps added to the downward pressure on bitcoin and the wider crypto market. ""People become afraid that the Luna Foundation Guard [LFG] would have to sell its BTC to support the UST peg, so BTC sells off,"" Ilan Solot, a partner at the Tagus Capital Multi-Strategy Fund, said in an email.
""Remember that Terra foundation is the second-largest corporate holder of BTC, between MicroStrategy and Tesla,"" Solot added.
The stablecoin was 0.5% off its peg at the time of writing. Terra's founder Do Kwon tweeted early Monday that the LFG agreed to deploy $1.5 billion in capital to defend the peg while assuring the market that the foundation was not trying to abandon its bitcoin position.
Some 'hopium'
Amid the gloom and doom, two charts could offer some ""hopium"" – a crypto slang for hope – to the battered bitcoin bulls.
The first is bitcoin's implied volatility (IV) – options traders' expectations for price turbulence over a specific period. The one-week implied volatility has risen above the six-week gauge, a sign of peak fear.
A similar IV structure has marked temporary/interim price bottoms in the past.
Secondly, the dollar index's (DXY) technical chart shows the 50-week moving average is on track to move above the 200-week MA, confirming the so-called bullish crossover (Editor's note: The newsletter mistakenly said ""monthly"" moving averages).
While the golden cross is a bullish indicator, as per technical analysis theory, it is a lagging indicator in reality and often traps traders on the wrong side of the market. In other words, the DXY could be closing on an interim top. The dollar weakness is considered positive for risk assets, including cryptocurrencies.
Staking Tool Lido DAO's LDO Token Climbs Ahead of Binance Listing
Bitstamp Appoints JB Graftieaux as CEO After Julian Sawyer's Departure
How Big Is Crypto Crime, Really?
Luna Foundation Guard Lens $1.5B in BTC and UST for Stablecoin Peg
First Mover Asia: The BitMEX Saga Continues to Leave Fundamental Regulatory Issues Unsettled; Bitcoin Continues to Fall
Today’s newsletter was edited by Omkar Godbole and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
75,89,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/09/ust-stablecoin-falls-below-dollar-peg-for-second-time-in-48-hours/,"UST Stablecoin Loses Dollar Peg for Second Time in 48 Hours, LUNA Market Cap Falls Below UST's",The development comes after the Luna Foundation Guard announced that its massive bitcoin reserves will be used to defend UST’s dollar peg.,2022-05-09,"TerraUSD (UST) has lost its dollar peg for the second time in three days, falling to as low as $0.65 on Monday, according to the most recent price estimates from CoinMarketCap.
As UST has ""depegged,"" the price of LUNA, its sister token, has dropped over 44% to $35 in the past 24 hours according to CoinMarketCap.
UST, a so-called algorithmic stablecoin, works with LUNA to maintain a price of $1 using a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanics. In theory, these mechanics work to ensure traders can always swap $1 worth of UST for $1 worth of Luna, which has a floating price and is meant to serve as a kind of shock absorber for UST's price.
Luna's price decline puts its market cap below that of UST's. That potentially throws the foundation of UST's entire stabilizing mechanism into jeopardy, because it means a Terra bank run could lead to some users no longer being able to redeem their $1 of UST for $1 of LUNA.
Read More: What is LUNA and UST? A Guide to the Terra Ecosystem
UST’s earlier loss of its $1 peg this weekend, which saw the token dip to $0.985 on Saturday before recovering to the $1 mark on Sunday, wasn't the first or the largest “depeg” event in Terra’s history, but it marked the first time the algorithmic stablecoin slipped below $1 since it embarked on a much-publicized bid to build out bitcoin and avalanche reserves.
Today’s depeg comes after the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) announced Sunday night that $1.5 billion of its massive bitcoin reserves would be “loaned” out to professional market makers to proactively defend UST’s dollar peg.
Monday's events were ""the biggest stress test the system has ever faced,"" José Maria Macedo – a partner at Delphi Digital and an LFG council member who helps manage the group's reserves – told CoinDesk. But he added that the UST-LUNA market cap flip is not a cause for concern because of LFG's reserves.
Shortly after Macedo's call with CoinDesk, Terra appeared to empty out all of the funds (around $1.3 billion) from its confirmed bitcoin address.
A few minutes later, Do Kwon, the outspoken CEO of Terra's creators, Terraform Labs, tweeted, ""Deploying more capital - steady lads.""
Professional market makers are apparently using the BTC reserves to defend UST's dollar peg on protocols like Curve, which allows people to swap between UST and other currencies like the dollar-backed USDC and Tether stablecoins.
Currently, there is no concrete link between the LFG reserves and Terra's on-chain mint and burn mechanism. There are proposals to bake Terra's bitcoin reserves into its underlying smart contracts, but there's currently no way for users to directly redeem UST or LUNA for bitcoin.
Whether this will ever be possible has become even more unclear now that the reserves look to have been drained almost entirely.
On CoinDesk TV on Monday morning, Swan Bitcoin CEO Cory Klippsten called Terra a “confidence game” in response to the outsized influence of Terra’s founders and big-money backers in actively working to help the currency maintain its peg.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.
UPDATE (May 9, 18:46 UTC): Updated with additional context and information.
UPDATE (May 9, 22:07 UTC): Updated UTC price information in first paragraph.
UPDATE (May 10, 00:52 UTC): Updated UTC price information in first paragraph."
76,167,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/10/ust-backer-lfg-seeks-1b-to-shore-up-stablecoin-peg-report/,UST Backer LFG Seeks $1B to Shore Up Stablecoin Peg: Report,The funding is needed because the dollar-pegged stablecoin dropped as low as 60 cents Monday amid broader market turmoil.,2022-05-10,"The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), stewards of Terra’s UST stablecoin, are looking to raise over $1 billion.
According to The Block, LFG will use the cash to help restore UST’s dollar peg. On Monday the algorithmic stablecoin fell as low as 60 cents amid broader crypto market turmoil. It has been around 90 cents on Tuesday.
Jump, Celsius, Jane Street and (perhaps) Alameda are reportedly in talks for a deal that will allow them to purchase LUNA, Terra's token, at a 50% discount. The tokens would be subject to a one-year lockup and vest monthly in year two, according to The Block. The firms did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment.
LFG did not comment on the funding round when reached by CoinDesk. Earlier Tuesday, Do Kwon, the founder of Terra creators Terraform Labs, tweeted: “Close to announcing a recovery plan for $UST. Hang tight.”
UST uses blockchain-based mint and burn mechanisms to, in theory, keep its price at exactly $1. It uses LUNA as a sort of shock absorber for UST volatility by guaranteeing that 1 UST can always be swapped for $1 in LUNA, which has a floating price.
When UST fell as low as 60 cents on Monday, it sent shockwaves through the entire decentralized finance (DeFi) industry, even sparking comments from U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen on the risks of crypto stablecoin bank runs.
As UST cratered and the price of LUNA dropped nearly 50%, LFG deployed over $1.5 billion of its newly formed bitcoin (BTC) reserves to defend UST’s peg.
With the help of professional market makers, the reserves appear to have successfully lifted the price of UST back up to 92 cents at press time. This was a major boost from Monday’s lows, but it doesn’t count as a full recovery given UST remains below its dollar peg."
77,160,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/10/first-mover-asia-crypto-market-decline-underlines-its-unpredictability-bitcoin-holds-at-31k/,First Mover Asia: Crypto Market Decline Underlines Its Unpredictability; Bitcoin Holds at $31K,"Most signs have pointed downward, but predicting price trends in the days and weeks ahead is difficult; major cryptos have a mixed day.",2022-05-10,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds; other cryptos are mixed.
Insights: Crypto prices are unpredictable.
Technician's take: BTC's volume uptick is an initial sign of capitulation, but upside remains limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,083 +1.4%
Ether (ETH): $2,353 +3.4%
Bitcoin holds around $31K
Bitcoin and ether trembled, but Terra's LUNA quaked in Tuesday trading.
The native token of the Terra ecosystem was recently down over 53% over the past 24 hours after the organization's UST stablecoin continued to fall well short of its dollar peg, and amid a report that the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), the non-profit established to support the Terra network, was aiming to raise $1 billion to restore this parity. The decline followed a 30% drop on Monday. UST was recently in the red over 6%.
Meanwhile, bitcoin's roughly 1.4% upturn represented an improvement over the previous day when the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization dove below $30,000 in early Tuesday trading – the first time since July 20 it had fallen below this threshold. Bitcoin was recently trading just above $31,000.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, outperformed over the same period, rising approximately 3.5%, and was changing hands around $2,350. Other cryptos were mixed for much of the day with AXS recently off over 6%, but CRO and meme coin SHIB in the green more than 8% and 10%, respectively.
The crypto industry continued to feel the shockwaves of wider geopolitical and economic turmoil. Crypto exchange giant Coinbase (COIN) missed its first-quarter revenue estimates amid a 44% decline in trading revenue from the fourth quarter. Miner Riot Blockchain (RIOT) also missed analysts predictions for its first three months of 2022.
Cryptos' less tumultuous Tuesday tracked equity indexes, which were mixed with the tech-heavy Nasdaq rising about a percentage point and the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling slightly. Investors will be eyeing the April consumer price index report, which is widely expected to show that inflation slowed but prices remained high.
In emailed comments, Jaime Baeza, CEO of Miami-based crypto hedge fund ANB Investments, noted the pressure of macroeconomic events, including inflation and a tightening of central bank monetary policy on stocks and digital assets but attributed the most recent drop-off in bitcoin ""to the de-peg of the UST."" Baeza wrote that LFG's decision to defend the peg by selling bitcoin reserves ""accelerated the sell-off of the broader crypto market as panic spread, and a more black swan systemic-risk event loomed closer.""
In an interview on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program, Joseph Kelly, CEO of bitcoin financial services firm Unchained Capital, called the depegging ""a scary headline thing.""
But he added optimistically: ""It's one of those things that you get to hold in contrast to bitcoin as a more sound, more explainable asset that isn't overpromising and trying to do things like maintain a dollar peg. It's one way that Bitcoin continues to shine in the long run.""
S&P 500: 4,001 +0.2%
DJIA: 32,160 -0.2%
Nasdaq: 11,737 +0.9%
Gold: $1,839 -0.8%
Predicting crypto markets is challenging
The last week in crypto has shown an immense volatility, that few if any assets can match. Markets have lost more than $1 billion as Terra’s UST stablecoin was thrown off its 1:1 dollar peg and the crypto majors collapsed, bringing with it plenty of liquidations.
There’s a lot to unpack about the collapse of Terra’s UST. Probably the least understood part of it was the Luna Foundation Guard’s decision to lend out almost the entirety of their reserves to market makers to support the $1 UST peg by specifically making trades marked to $1. Somewhere there’s theoretical merit to this, but the market saw LFG’s reserves at critically low levels and pushed to liquidate as much as it could.
The timing of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s report on stablecoins couldn’t have been better.
“These vulnerabilities may be exacerbated by a lack of transparency regarding the riskiness and liquidity of assets backing stablecoins,” the report read, with Nellie Liang, the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for Domestic Finance, adding at an event, “They have the potential to generate destabilizing runs if the value of the assets backing the stablecoin decline abruptly.”
In many ways, stablecoins were one of the post-March 2020 legacies. They were supposed to create real utility and acceptance for the asset class and reflected growing institutional interest. After all, before March 2020, stablecoins had a market cap of just over $5 billion. Now that number is closer to $175 billion.
Some might think that this triple whammy of the de-pegging of UST (and its likely failure), a violent decline in crypto prices and a condemnation of stablecoins by the Fed would put the asset class in a precarious position. It would be a test of faith and conviction.
Sure, some data suggests that very thing. Bitcoin is flowing into exchanges at a pace not seen since November 2017.
Just over 50,000 bitcoin went into exchanges on Monday. Traditionally, exchange inflow means that traders are getting ready to sell their assets, which is seen as a bearish signal for prices. But it also means that traders might be preparing to make a play for the derivatives market. In this scenario, they would open long positions to accelerate their gains as the price of crypto recovers.
Consider what happened during November 2017. As Glassnode data shows, there was plenty of bitcoin on exchanges. It was the peak of the initial coin offering bubble and the price of bitcoin continued to appreciate – despite all these bitcoin on exchanges. Yes, there was a derivatives market, as BitMEX launched in 2014, but at the time it was still relatively unsophisticated and wouldn’t come of age until 2018.
The point is, this asset class, in the grand scheme of things, is still in its infancy. There are many signals we can use to help navigate through the market, but at the end of the day, crypto’s unpredictability means these indicators signify predictions and are not definitive.
Bitcoin Holding Support at $30K, Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) stabilized at around the $30,000 support level, which could keep short-term buyers active. Still, upside appears to be limited, initially toward the next resistance level at $35,000.
BTC rose by as much as 4% over the past 24 hours. It's down by 16% over the past week. Several alternative cryptos (altcoins) are outperforming BTC over the past 24 hours, suggesting a greater appetite for risk among short-term traders.
Typically, BTC declines less than altcoins during market recoveries because of its lower risk profile relative to smaller tokens.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from extreme oversold levels, which could support a brief relief rally similar to what occurred in late January. This time, however, negative momentum signals have increased the chance of additional breakdowns on the chart.
Further, the 14-day moving average of volume (based on Coinbase exchange data provided by TradingView) ticked higher, which could be an initial sign of capitulation. Still, current volume levels are lower than June of last year when BTC settled at about $30,000.
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China Consumer price index (MoM/YoY April)
9: 30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): China producer price index (YoY/April)
3 p.m. HKT/SGT(7 a.m. UTC): Japan economic index (March preliminary)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
What’s Next for Bitcoin, Broader Crypto Markets After Sell-Off, Reaction to UST Veering Wildly From Dollar Peg
""First Mover"" dove into the crypto markets with three top industry leaders and analysts. What's causing the current sell-off and what's next? What is the future of UST stablecoin after it veered wildly from its dollar peg? Guests included Joseph Kelly, CEO of Unchained Capital; David Russell, vice president, market intelligence of TradeStation Group; and Bennett Tomlin, ""Crypto Critics' Corner"" co-host.
Bitcoin Drops Below $30K Amid Broader Market Sell-Off, Hits 10-Month Low: The last time the largest cryptocurrency by market cap traded under $30,000 was in July 2021.
Azuki NFT Founder Admits to Abandoning Past Projects: The project’s floor price has dropped dramatically following the news.
New Fed Report Repeats Warning About Stablecoin Run Risks as UST Loses Peg: The Federal Reserve's biannual report came out on the same day Terra's dollar-pegged UST stablecoin fell below 85 cents.
Instagram Eyes Creator Economy With NFT Rollout: With millions of creators and billions of users, Instagram could turn NFTs into a cash cow, the company hopes.
Inflation Will Create a Political Vacuum. Can Bitcoin Fill It?: Prices are rising at a time of pervasive distrust in government to fix the problem. That leaves the door open to bitcoin, the ultimate anti-inflation hedge.
Today's crypto explainer: Can Crypto Go Green? How to Invest in Eco-Friendly Cryptocurrencies
Other voices: China’s internet users are paying close attention to the crypto crash (TechCrunch)
""It’s not always easy to tell who loses most when markets contract. We, or at least I, have a tendency to sentimentalize the economy knowing how people’s retirements and livelihoods are tied up in capital. And so “corrections” appear to be more personal than just the mechanizations of money. People are making decisions to buy or sell or hold, after all, often based on incomplete, contradictory or confusing information."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... “My plan is to lower everyday costs for hard-working Americans and lower the deficit by asking corporations and the wealthiest Americans not engage in price gouging and pay their fair share."" (U.S. President Joe Biden) ... """"He [Jack Dorsey] and I are of the same mind that permanent bans should be extremely rare and reserved for accounts that are bots or scam accounts."" (Tesla CEO Elon Musk as quoted by the BBC)"
78,195,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/10/crypto-market-crash-leads-to-1b-in-liquidations-majors-lose-pivotal-support/,Crypto Market Crash Leads to $1B in Liquidations,Bitcoin and ether lost pivotal support levels leading to massive losses for long future traders.,2022-05-10,"Crypto futures racked up more than $1 billion in liquidations in the past 24 hours amid weak market sentiment and major assets losing pivotal support levels.
Bitcoin (BTC) fell as much as 8% in the past 24 hours. Ether (ETH), BNB Chain’s BNB and XRP saw similar losses. Terra’s LUNA fell 50% as its UST stablecoin lost its peg with U.S. dollar, while meme coin dogecoin (DOGE) fared relatively better than the market with just a 6% drop.
Bitcoin temporarily fell under $30,000 during early Asian trading hours, buoyed by a weak broader market. Nasdaq ended Monday 4.29% lower, while Asian markets began Tuesday over 1% lower.
Such price action led to this year’s biggest liquidations losses so far. Data shows traders of bitcoin futures lost $346 million, ether futures lost $321 million, and LUNA futures lost $87 million – a higher-than-usual figure for traders of that asset.
More than $793 million of the total liquidations arose from long traders, or those betting on higher prices, which represented 74% of the futures trades. Some $257 million of that occurred on crypto exchange OKX, followed by Binance at $181 million and FTX at $102 million.
Open interest, or the amount of outstanding derivative contracts that have not been settled, fell 5.6%, implying traders closed their positions in anticipation of a further drop. As such, the crypto market lost nearly 8% of its overall capitalization in the past 24 hours.
Markets seemed to gradually recover at writing time. Bitcoin traded above $31,800, while ether regained the $2,800 level. An extended recovery would depend on how broader equity markets trade this week, however, as market observers previously pointed out."
79,273,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/10/usts-bitcoin-reserve-too-late-in-coming-to-save-dollar-peg/,UST’s Bitcoin Reserve Too Late in Coming to Save Dollar Peg,"Luna Foundation Guard buying billions of dollars in bitcoin without an infrastructure ready to deploy left Terra’s UST vulnerable to a “Soros-style attack,” an analyst said.",2022-05-10,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG)'s proposed cryptocurrency reserve to guard against a collapse of the UST stablecoin came too late to guard against the past week's market turmoil.
As digital assets plunged along with traditional markets, the lack of an established formal structure in place for the project's forex reserve – designed to head off a crisis of confidence in UST's dollar peg – left the stablecoin vulnerable to a market rout.
Instead, officials found themselves scrambling to improvise solutions, offering some $1.5 billion of cryptocurrency loans to maintain the peg and later reportedly scrambling to line up fresh capital to back the project. (A spokesperson for the project didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.)
LFG accumulated more than $3 billion in its reserve, mostly in bitcoin (BTC), before UST first lost its 1:1 dollar peg on Sunday. However, the plan to connect the reserve to the blockchain with a smart contract to stabilize UST in a crisis was still weeks away from launching.
As of late Tuesday, UST was changing hands below 80 cents.
“The reserves had reached its desired size, but the infrastructure to utilize the reserves was not in place,” Vetle Lunde, analyst at the Norway-based crypto research firm Arcane Research, said. “Add a bleeding market and poor weekend liquidity to the mix, and you've got yourself a great opportunity to attack.”
UST is the largest algorithmic stablecoin, with a market capitalization that topped $18 billion before losing its peg to the dollar during the weekend, falling to as low as 68 cents on Monday, and its implosion sent shockwaves through the crypto market.
Read more: UST Stablecoin Veers Wildly From Dollar Peg. Here's the Latest
Algorithmic stablecoins are supposed to maintain their price peg through a system of trading incentives based on game theory. In the case of UST, that meant a decentralized blockchain protocol that involves creating and reducing supply of a related token, LUNA.
To address those fears, Terraform Labs, the firm that developed the Terra blockchain, coordinated with other investors to create an organization called the Luna Foundation Guard and started to accumulate a reserve that would support UST’s peg in a crisis.
LFG went on a buying spree, filling up the reserve with about $3.5 billion worth of crypto assets and became one of the largest single bitcoin holders on the market – but without a working system in place to deploy the reserve if a crisis happened.
Under a proposal by Jump Trading, a trading firm and an investor in LFG, the reserve would work like this: If the UST price fell below 98 cents, traders could swap UST to bitcoin (and other cryptocurrencies in the reserve) at the price peg, creating demand for UST with an arbitrage incentive.
Read more: Bailout Fund, Backstop or Bouncy Ball? Here's How LFG's Bitcoin 'Reserve' Might Work
But the crisis happened before the system could be put in place.
Jose Maria Macedo, a council member of the Luna Foundation Guard, told CoinDesk the bitcoin swap mechanism was expected to be shipped by the end of next week by the developer team of Astroport, a token exchange built on the Terra blockchain.
Do Kwon, co-founder of Terra developer firm Terraform Labs, tweeted Monday that the testnet launch was a few weeks away.
There has been a lot of talk about the chokepoints of algorithmic stablecoins lately, with critics saying that they are inherently unstable in a market downturn, and vulnerable for market participants to exploit weak points in the design.
Sean Farrell, analyst at FundStrat, wrote in a report Tuesday that “we have ample reason to believe that the ‘run’ on UST was not a coincidence, but a deliberate exploit of UST’s (clearly fragile) architecture.”
According to Farrell, here is what led to the turmoil:
Before any panic, LFG removed on Saturday approximately $250 million from the UST-3pool on the stablecoin exchange platform Curve in two transactions, reportedly preparing for the launch of the upcoming 4pool.
Immediately following the first transaction, a seller swapped $85 million of UST for USDC on Curve, and pushed the UST-3pool, which held UST, USDC, USDT and DAI stablecoins, out of balance.
The seller dumped the UST at a pace that exceeded marginal demand, creating a positive feedback loop that brought the price of UST down to 98 cents.
LFG loaned $1.5 billion from the reserve to traders tasked to restore the peg, and almost succeeded in bringing UST back to $1.
When traditional markets opened Monday and continued to sell off, the original short seller apparently continued with its market swaps on Curve, knowing that few buyers would want to step in to save the algorithmic stablecoin.
Market makers started selling bitcoin to support UST, but then realized that it would only make things worse because falling prices were reducing the ammunition available to support the peg.
“It's reminiscent of [billionaire George] Soros' attack on the Bank of England in the 1990s, albeit attacking the UST peg is a far more low-hanging fruit for sufficiently capitalized entities to attack,” Arcane Research’s Lunde said. George Soros’s successful hedge fund bet against the British pound's exchange-rate mechanism made him a fortune on the trade.
Even if LFG somehow manages to restore the peg, much damage has already been done to UST.
Investors are pulling money out of from Anchor, the largest yield-earning protocol built on the Terra blockchain that drove most of the demand to UST. Some 60% of its deposits have fled in just a few days, according to the protocol’s dashboard.
Kwon tweeted Tuesday that he was “close to announcing a recovery plan for UST,” while LFG is reportedly in talks to raise $1 billion to prop up its reserve.
Lunde said that LFG “may succeed in the short run” in bringing back UST to the peg, “but the long-term reputational effects and the trust in UST has surely gotten a hit by this.”
At press time, UST resumed its downward spiral, exchanging hands at 73 cents, while the price of LUNA stood at $13.68, dropping 66% in value in 24 hours."
80,154,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/10/ust-stablecoin-veers-wildly-from-dollar-peg-heres-the-latest/,UST Stablecoin Veers Wildly From Dollar Peg. Here's the Latest,"By tapping into its bitcoin reserves, UST’s salvation may have exacerbated a bitcoin sell-off that brought BTC to its lowest price since July 2021.",2022-05-10,"The Latest:
UST dropped as low as $0.65 on Monday, suggesting a potential collapse of the market’s leading algorithmic stablecoin.
LUNA, UST’s shock absorber, dropped 50% to $30.
Luna Foundation Guard, the entity in charge of maintaining the stablecoin’s peg, drained its $1.5 billion bitcoin reserve and bought $850 million more in BTC in a bid to defend UST’s peg.
The move may have created sell pressure contributing to bitcoin’s 10% price dip on Monday.
On Tuesday morning, UST returned to $0.90 following LFG's deployment of additional bitcoin to preserve the peg.
Algorithmic stablecoin UST lost its $1 peg for the second time in three days Monday, falling as low as $0.65 according to the most recent price estimates from CoinMarketCap. As UST has ""depegged,"" the price of LUNA, its sister token, has dropped 45% to $33 in the past 24 hours, according to CoinMarketCap.
The price action prompted the custodian of Terra’s bitcoin reserves, the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), to snap up and quickly deploy 28,205 bitcoin (BTC) in a bid to defend the peg by buying up UST and providing liquidity on exchanges. That action coincided with a modest recovery in UST’s price; it surged from lows in the $0.65 range to $0.78 as of press time.
On Tuesday morning, UST returned to $0.90 as LFG's bitcoin reserves outweighed the exhausted supply on exchanges. Luna has also recovered from a low of $23.16 to $28.81.
As bitcoin sunk by 10% on Monday alone, UST’s believers and detractors alike pondered how much LFG’s salvation attempts exacerbated a bitcoin sell-off that brought BTC to its lowest price since July 2021.
As Terra supporters continued to signal confidence on Monday, a crowd of longtime critics were quick to say, “I told you so.” Some even drew parallels between Terra and IRON Finance, a stablecoin that fell to zero last year in what was called crypto’s first large-scale bank run.
“There's still ample reserves to support the peg,” Jose Maria Macedo, a member of LFG’s council, told CoinDesk earlier in the day as UST’s depegging was first becoming evident.
UST, a so-called algorithmic stablecoin, works with LUNA to maintain a price of $1 using game theory and a set of blockchain-based mint and burn mechanics. In an ideal world, these mechanics are supposed to ensure traders can always swap $1 worth of UST for $1 worth of LUNA, which has a floating price and is meant to serve as a kind of shock absorber for UST price volatility.
Centralized stablecoins like USDC and tether form the foundation of decentralized finance (DeFi) with their fully collateralized answers to the digital dollar, but Terra’s “decentralized” UST stablecoin has been nipping at their heels as of late with a market cap of over $18 billion.
Terra says its algorithmic stablecoin will rip power away from centralized institutions and failed monetary policies. Skeptics allege the entire system is a ponzi scheme propped up by memes, fake fundamentals and whales.
A UST collapse would send ripples through the entire DeFi industry, and it will sound alarm bells for regulators who notice retail investors holding the bag.
Trouble began brewing for Terra this past weekend, when major UST sell-offs from a Terra whale and precipitous withdrawals from UST’s Anchor money market briefly brought UST as low as $0.985 on Saturday.
Last Friday, 75% of circulating UST was deposited in Anchor, which has in the past wooed investors with 20% annual returns.
Anchor’s UST deposits nosedived from $14 billion to around $7 billion amid UST’s 72-hour price cratering.
Read more: Investors Flee Terra’s Anchor as UST Stablecoin Repeatedly Loses $1 Peg
UST’s heavy reliance on Anchor has long caused tension between the stablecoin’s boosters and critics who say that Anchor’s yields are artificially inflated by Terraform Labs (Terra’s creators) and its big-money backers, like Jump Crypto and Three Arrows Capital.
Over time, critics say, Anchor would’ve been forced to reduce yields to the point where users would no longer have any incentive to lock up UST with the platform. In a world where there are few other uses for UST, such a scenario would have spelled trouble for the fledgling currency.
To allay these and other concerns, Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon went on a massive bitcoin buying spree in order to create a kind of partial reserve for UST. The bitcoin reserves, which have no concrete link to the smart contracts that power Terra’s UST stablecoin, went into the hands of the newly formed LFG.
On Monday LFG announced that it would, for the first time, loan out the reserves to professional market makers in an attempt to defend UST’s peg.
The reserve funds, topped up by an additional $850 million on Monday, have been used to defend UST’s peg on exchanges like Binance and Curve.
While Macedo, the LFG council member, expressed optimism to CoinDesk that the BTC reserves would be enough to bring UST back to $1, not everyone agrees.
According to Kevin Galois, a hedge fund manager and Terra critic, “[Terra] barely bought themselves a day with their $750 million peg defense play.”
“At this point they either let LUNA bleed out max convertible amount per day or recapitalize the UST debt for cents on the dollar. So either haircut the UST holders or let the LUNA holders take massive losses,” Galois wrote to CoinDesk.
Perhaps the most consequential outcome of Monday’s price action is that Luna’s market cap has fallen below that of UST's. This potentially jeopardizes UST's entire stabilizing mechanism, which is built upon the idea that 1 UST can always be swapped for $1 of LUNA.
If UST is more valuable than LUNA, Terra risks becoming insolvent should there ever be a bank run.
Throughout Monday, Terra’s Korea-based founder, Do Kwon, remained uncharacteristically silent: “Deploying more capital – steady lads” was his only tweet.
Amid Kwon’s silence, retail boosters of Terra, so-called “LUNAtics,” appeared to be grappling with the possibility of a Terra collapse. One member of the 31,000+ Discord community bemoaned the price drops as a “massive hurdle” preventing observers from accepting “the whole entire concept of Terra + UST: decentralization.”
By 9:00 p.m. ET, Terra’s Discord moderators had set “slow mode” to one hour to keep the LUNAtics’ anxiety at bay.
UPDATE (May 10, 10:01 UTC): Updates prices of UST and LUNA throughout. Adds bullet point."
81,61,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/11/terra-founder-do-kwon-supports-communitys-ust-proposal-luna-drops-to-22/,"Terra Founder Do Kwon Supports Community's UST Proposal, LUNA Slides",The proposal seeks to bring UST back to its intended $1 peg.,2022-05-11,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon said Wednesday the company is supporting a community proposal that could help TerraUSD (UST), a stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar, regain its peg.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are supposed to be automatically pegged to the price of another currency. By design, 1 UST can be redeemed or minted for exactly $1 worth of LUNA at any time, which in theory helps retain its value. The project, however, later added a bitcoin reserve as additional backing
UST, however, lost its peg and fell to as low as 66 cents on Monday. It regained 90 cents on Tuesday before slumping to lows of less than 35 cents during Asian trading hours on Wednesday. That was accompanied by a steep drop in the price of LUNA.
Kwon, who has been uncharacteristically silent on Twitter over the past few days, says there’s a plan to bring UST back to its peg.
“The price stabilization mechanism is absorbing UST supply (over 10% of total supply),” Kwon wrote in a tweet during European trading hours, explaining how UST works. “But the cost of absorbing so many stablecoins at the same time has stretched out the on-chain swap spread to 40%, and LUNA price has diminished dramatically absorbing the arbs.”
Arbs refers to arbitrage, or a trading strategy used by traders who buy and sell LUNA and UST to maintain the peg and make a profit by doing so.
“The only path forward will be to absorb the stablecoin supply that wants to exit before $UST can start to repeg. There is no way around it,” Kwon said, adding that Terra endorsed the community proposal “1164,” which proposes increasing the minting capacity of Terra’s LUNA from $293 million to over $1.2 billion.
That means additional LUNA would be minted and sold in the market to try to bring UST’s peg back to $1. That is in addition to a separate proposal that aims to offer lower yield to users of Anchor, a Terra product.
The proposal explains: “[By allowing] more efficient UST burning and LUNA minting, [which] will in the short term put pressure to LUNA price, but will be an effective way to bring UST back to peg, which will eventually stabilize LUNA price.”
Meanwhile, LUNA fell to $2.2 in the past hour as traders anticipated further supply increases to add to selling pressure on the token, CoinDesk data shows.
Read more: Anchor Community Submits Proposal to Restore UST Peg
UPDATE (May 11, 11:45 UTC): Removes LUNA price from headline.
UPDATE (May 11, 12:55 UTC): Updates stablecoin definition in second graph."
82,269,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-at-16-month-low-as-ust-collapse-shows-risks-of-algo-stablecoins/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin at 16-Month Low as UST Collapse Shows Risks of 'Algo' Stablecoins,A number of algorithm-based stablecoins have already failed; bitcoin and other cryptos see deep red.,2022-05-11,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin hits its lowest point since December 2020 amid UST's implosion.
Insights: Algo stablecoins may not be such a great idea.
Technician's take: BTC is deeply oversold, but upside appears limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $28,550 -8.1%
Ether (ETH): $2,050 -12.8%
Cryptos tumble amid LUNA implosion
Ouch.
What else was there to say about Wednesday trading in crypto markets?
Bitcoin fell to $27,700 at one point to a 16-month low before regaining some ground, but it was still part of a mass sell-off of digital assets triggered by the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin implosion against its 1:1 dollar peg.
""It is a very nervous time in crypto markets following the collapse of the controversial stablecoin UST and as the majority of institutional crypto investors that invested last year are now losing money,"" Oanda Americas Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya wrote.
Terra blockchain LUNA token token, which was created as a buffer against the volatility of UST stablecoin plunged 96% at one point after the Luna Foundation Guard, the non-profit established to support the Terra network, moved its reserves to bitcoin exchanges to defend the dollar peg. UST dropped as low as 23 cents before recovering to 77 cents later in the day. Stable it wasn't.
Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, was recently trading at $28,500, down about 7%, although it fared better than most other major cryptos, underscoring its status as a less risky option during tumultuous times for the wider digital assets market. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was also off, declining approximately 11% over the same period, to roughly $2,050.
The charts were even darker red and included AVAX, SOL and SAND, which recently dropped 36%, 33% and 31%, respectively. Popular meme coins SHIB and DOGE tumbled about 29% and 26%, respectively.
Equity markets shared in the misery as investors digested the latest U.S. news on inflation, which ticked slightly lower in April, but remained at four-decade highs. The prices for groceries and other consumer goods, airline travel and service industries spiked amid rising energy costs and supply chain slowdowns exacerbated by Russia's unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
The tech-focused Nasdaq sank over 3% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average each dropped over 1%. Meanwhile, gold, the traditional safe haven against risk, increased about 1%.
""Today’s market reaction to the inflation report will make it hard to attract any investor who is still on the sidelines,"" Moya wrote. ""The risks on Wall Street are growing and now include a Fed policy mistake, liquidity and credit risks, and growth concerns.""
He added that bitcoin ""remains very vulnerable to further selling pressure and could see further technical selling if the $28,500 level breaks.""
S&P 500: 3,935 -1.6%
DJIA: 31,834 -1%
Nasdaq: 11,364 -3.1%
Gold: $1,852 +1%
Algorithmic stablecoins may not be such a great idea
LUNA and UST, the token and stablecoin of Singapore-based Terraform Labs, continued spiraling as UST’s key design imploded and trader sentiment around LUNA plummeted.
The impact wasn’t limited to niche regions of the internet either, as suicide helplines trended on community forums centered on Terra.
UST, a stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollars, fell to as low as 28 cents on Wednesday despite being backed by the likes of big-name crypto venture funds such as Three Arrows Capital and the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG).
The de-pegging, however, was unsurprising. Several algorithmic stablecoins have failed over the past two years and none have thrived.
Examples include Iron Finance and its TITAN tokens, Basis Cash, Empty Set Dollar, Dynamic Set Dollar and many more. These equated to millions of dollars in losses for investors.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are backed by a basket of assets, such as LUNA and bitcoin (BTC), without depending on any centralized third party to hold those assets. This is unlike tether and USD coin, whose parent firms claim to hold actual dollars in bank accounts to sufficiently back the values of USDT and USDC, respectively.
Tokens such as UST depend on LUNA to maintain a price of $1 using a set of on-chain mint and burn mechanics. Traders can always swap $1 worth of UST for $1 worth of LUNA and vice versa – with LUNA’s growing value serving as a shock absorber for UST's price.
However, the mechanism of algorithmically-governed stablecoins like UST makes them susceptible to the colloquial bank run.
As an example, consider Terra’s LUNA and UST tokens. A sudden fall in LUNA prices affects UST's entire stabilizing mechanism because users can no longer redeem their $1 of UST for $1 of LUNA. This creates a downward spiral as falling UST prices affect sentiment around LUNA, and a LUNA sell-off leads to lower UST prices.
A case in point is Wednesday’s price action. LUNA fell below $6 – a 96% drop since Tuesday – while UST slumped to 28 cents.
Analysts and market observers say algorithmic stablecoins remain a cause for concern now.
“Algorithmic stablecoins we see on the market today are innately brittle due to their design,” said Kate Kurbanova, cofounder of risk management platform Apostro, in a Telegram chat. “They try to hold the peg by using different algorithms, market incentives, and so on – but nevertheless, they are highly vulnerable and rely on the market and reference asset price.”
“However, such experiments work as there is a demand for stablecoins – especially when it comes to juicy APY,” Kurbanova added, reasoning their popularity.
The takeaway? Retail participants should perhaps stay away from algorithmic stablecoins that aren’t ready for prime time just yet, as the many failed experiments (and dollar losses) prove. It’s not like the crypto market isn’t enough of a risky asset class already.
Bitcoin Struggles Near $27K-$30K Support Zone
Bitcoin (BTC) is down by 6% over the past 24 hours and is trading at the bottom of a year-long price range. The cryptocurrency could find support between $27,000 and $30,000, although negative momentum signals point to additional breakdowns.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is deeply oversold, similar to what occurred on Jan. 24 of this year and May 20 of last year. Still, in a downtrend, oversold conditions can persist for a few weeks before an upswing in price occurs.
On the weekly chart, the RSI is the most oversold since March 2020, which preceded a strong rally. This time, however, long-term momentum has deteriorated, suggesting limited upside beyond the upper $40,000-$45,000 resistance zone.
For now, a relief rally could be brief, especially given the strong break below $35,000 last week.
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Australia consumer inflation expectations (May)
1 p.m. HKT/SGT(5 a.m. UTC): Japan eco watchers survey current/outlook (April)
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): UK trade balance (March)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
UST Turmoil Continues, Ripple Effects on Bitcoin, Crypto Confidence, Inflation News and More
The crypto market sell-off continued as the algorithmic stablecoin UST failed to recover its peg to the U.S. dollar. ""First Mover"" had markets analysis and the latest developments in the UST crisis. Guests included David Lawant of Bitwise Asset Management, ADM Investor Services International Chief Economist Marc Ostwald and Deribit Chief Commercial Officer Luuk Strijers
The LUNA and UST Crash Explained in 5 Charts: One of the earliest signs that things were going wrong for Terra came when UST deposits on Anchor started dropping Saturday.
'$DAI Will Die' Tweet Twisted Back on Terra's Kwon as UST Loses $1 Peg: Terra's UST briefly fell below $6.5 billion in market cap on Wednesday morning, allowing DAI to be the fourth-biggest stablecoin on the market for a time.
Arrington Capital Scrubs $100M Anchor Yield Fund From Website After UST Upheaval: Founder Michael Arrington cited decreased demand for the decision to remove the fund from the company's website.
Coinbase's Q1 Revenue Misses Estimate as Trading Volume Drops: The U.S. crypto exchange's trading volume declined 44% from the fourth quarter.
UST’s Bitcoin Reserve Too Late in Coming to Save Dollar Peg: Luna Foundation Guard’s billions of dollars in bitcoin without an actual infrastructure ready to deploy left Terra’s stablecoin UST vulnerable to a ""Soros-style attack,"" an analyst said.
UST Stablecoin Loses Dollar Peg for Second Time in 48 Hours, LUNA Market Cap Falls Below UST's: The development comes after the Luna Foundation Guard announced that its massive bitcoin reserves will be used to defend UST’s dollar peg.
Bitcoin Payments Remain in Their Infancy but There Are Green Shoots Everywhere: Can cryptocurrencies, stablecoins and CBDCs coexist as methods of payment? Industry leaders shine a light on the future of crypto payments. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Payments Week.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Bitcoin?
Other voices: Crypto recovery in second half of 2022 is ‘unquestionable,’ says PolySign CEO (CNBC)
""Several current and former [Federal Reserve] officials have suggested in recent days that, in hindsight, the central bank should have reacted more quickly and forcefully last fall, but that both profound uncertainty about the future and the Fed’s approach to setting policy slowed it down."" (The New York Times) ... ""A recent survey of more than 13,000 businesses by Russia's central bank revealed that many are experiencing problems bringing goods such as microchips, car parts, packaging or even buttons, into the country as a result. Shortages of raw materials or parts are forcing some firms to temporarily close factories or to look elsewhere."" (BBC) ... ""Individuals’ willingness to backstop markets throughout this year’s sell-off demonstrates that the group – for now – has been more resilient than analysts and trading professionals anticipated."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
83,106,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/11/the-luna-and-ust-crash-explained-in-5-charts/,The LUNA and UST Crash Explained in 5 Charts,One of the earliest signs that things were going wrong for Terra came when UST deposits on Anchor started dropping Saturday.,2022-05-11,"The Terra money machine collapsed almost entirely Wednesday. The UST stablecoin remains deep in the sub-dollar doldrums for the third day running, and LUNA, its sister token, has fallen almost 97% off its 2022 high. The near-complete failure of a darling of decentralized finance (DeFi) stands as an important lesson in the systemic risks of algorithmic stablecoins – crypto’s elusive Holy Grail.
Read more: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
Understanding why UST collapsed this past week means understanding its Achilles heel – the Anchor lending protocol.
One of the earliest signs that things were going wrong for the stablecoin came when UST deposits on Anchor started dropping Saturday.
Anchor offers market leading yields of up to 20% on the year to users who deposit their UST on the platform. Before UST started its decline late on Saturday, Anchor was home to 75% of UST's entire circulating supply. That’s $14 billion of UST out of a total circulating supply of $18 billion.
With so much UST locked up in Anchor, it became clear that most investors were buying the stablecoin with the sole intent of reaping those sweet, sweet Anchor yields. Depending on whom you ask, Anchor’s relationship with UST was either an ingenious mechanism to manufacture utility for the fledgling stablecoin, or wasteful marketing spend attracting unloyal mercenary capital.
Read more: Investors Flee Terra’s Anchor as UST Stablecoin Repeatedly Loses $1 Peg
Critics said Anchor’s high yields were unsustainable – artificially propped up by Terra builders Terraform Labs (TFL) and its big money backers. A yield decrease, they say, would’ve sent UST depositors fleeing Anchor (and UST) in search of higher returns.
The system looked similar to that of a young Uber, where venture capitalists subsidized peoples’ ride fees in a long-term bid to achieve market dominance. Instead of cheaper cab fares, inflated Anchor yields were used to pull people into the UST ecosystem – hopefully permanently. The problem, according to critics, was that TFL and its partners could only afford to subsidize investors for so long. At some point, the money would dry up, and so would Anchor’s customers (and UST’s willing holders).
Though Anchor was never forced to decrease its yield rates too significantly, UST deposits dropped sharply through the start of this week, from $14 billion to as low as $3 billion. So much money draining from UST’s primary hub signaled a massive loss in confidence in the entire Terra protocol. With few other use cases for UST beyond Anchor, most withdrawals from the platform probably ended up on the open market.
As one might expect, the massive drain from Anchor onto the open market contributed major selling pressure to the Terra ecosystem.
UST, a so-called algorithmic stablecoin, works with its sister token, LUNA, to maintain a price around $1 using a set of on-chain mint-and-burn mechanics. In theory, these mechanics are supposed to ensure $1 worth of UST can be used to mint $1 of LUNA – which serves as a sort of floating price shock absorber for UST volatility.
The massive selling pressure led to sharp drops in the prices of both LUNA and of UST. Eventually, the market cap of LUNA flipped that of UST for the first time. When there was no longer $1 worth of LUNA for every $1 of UST, some watchful traders feared the entire system might become insolvent (because UST holders would have no clear way to “cash out” into LUNA in the event of a full-scale bank run). Whether this fear was fair or not (we’ll talk in the next section about LUNA’s bitcoin backstop), it’s hard to imagine that the psychological impact of nose-diving prices and a UST-LUNA market cap “flippening” didn’t cause even further sell action.
In order to shore up UST’s price, the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), Terra’s official peg defenders, deployed over $2 billion in its newly formed bitcoin (BTC) reserves.
Do Kwon started sweeping BTC off the market in recent months in an attempt to backstop UST, should its peg ever need defending.
In its first (and perhaps final) test of this mechanism, LFG “loaned” billions of dollars worth of reserve assets to professional market makers, draining LFG’s blockchain wallets almost entirely in the process.
Now, as LFG struggles to top up its empty reserves with new investors, market makers are on a quest to actively defend UST’s peg by deploying rescue capital on exchanges and liquidity pools.
While the rescue capital from Terra’s reserves had modest success bumping up the prices of UST and LUNA on Tuesday, the prices of both were extremely volatile leading into the early morning hours of Wednesday.
It was at this point that all bets seemed to be off for a smooth UST recovery. Even as Do Kwon announced on Twitter a UST rescue plan was in the works, market confidence in the project appeared to fall to all-time lows. At one point, LUNA – priced at over $120 earlier this year – fell below $1. UST fell below 30 cents for a brief time, leading to questions around whether the “stable” coin will ever be able regain its stability.
Read more: UST’s Do Kwon Was Behind Earlier Failed Stablecoin, Ex-Terra Colleagues Say
Much of the hundreds of millions of dollars in bitcoin used to rescue UST were likely sold straight to market early this week. Cash-outs to non-BTC currencies would have been necessary for traders hoping to defend UST’s peg.
Charts of BTC net transfer volumes tell this story, showing massive volume spikes on May 9-10 as Terra’s reserves were first deployed. While Terra doesn’t account for the entirety of these spikes, billions of dollars in freed-up Terra reserves would certainly have made an impact.
Terra’s BTC reserve dumps probably added sell-pressure to an already tumultuous market.
The impact of UST on the wider market is an important footnote amid all of this week's chaos. It stands as a reminder of why stablecoins – which form the foundation of decentralized finance – not only pose a risk to individual traders, but pose a systemic risk for the entire crypto ecosystem if not managed responsibly.
Don’t be surprised when the regulators come knocking."
84,165,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/11/crypto-fund-arca-doubled-down-on-ust-amid-stablecoins-collapse/,Crypto Fund Arca Doubled Down on UST Amid Stablecoin’s Collapse,"“UST will ultimately maintain its peg,” the hedge fund told partners Tuesday in a note obtained by CoinDesk.",2022-05-11,"Crypto hedge fund Arca is one of many likely suffering considerable fallout from the sudden and dramatic collapse of the Terra blockchain’s LUNA-powered stablecoin, UST.
The firm, which manages $500 million in assets, told its limited partners in a note sent out Tuesday it believed Terra’s teetering UST stablecoin would eventually regain its peg and concluded the situation created a buying opportunity.
Arca said in the note it held an ad hoc investment and risk committee meeting to discuss the situation. On Monday night, UST had fallen to a low of 63 cents and LUNA was trading at $24.60; as of press time on Wednesday, UST was still languishing well below $1 at 63 cents and LUNA had tanked below $1.15, according to CoinGecko.
“After this analysis, we felt, and continue to feel, that UST will ultimately maintain its peg and a number of attractive opportunities had become available,” Arca CEO Rayne Steinberg wrote to investors on Tuesday. “For example, we were able to purchase UST at a significant discount to par in the DYF (Digital Yield Fund) and then deposit with FTX who were paying 100% APY (annual percentage yield) given the buyer/seller imbalance during peak fear.”
Arca declined to comment. FTX, a crypto exchange, didn't reply to a request for comment.
Arca runs a Digital Assets Fund, in which LUNA is a core holding, according to the note. UST, meanwhile, is a core stablecoin in the firm’s Digital Yield Fund, the firm said in the letter. Galaxy Digital’s Vision Hill unit is an anchor investor in Arca. Galaxy boss Mike Novogratz famously inked a prominent LUNA tattoo on his left arm in January.
“We have significant experience in distressed situations from 2008/2009 up to and including SUSHI and LEO (Bitfinex) in recent years,” Steinberg wrote in the note, referring to past crises. “We welcome these opportunities to be buyers when others are fearful.”"
85,110,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/market-wrap-cryptos-extend-losses-as-luna-plunges/,Market Wrap: Cryptos Extend Losses as LUNA Plunges,"Bitcoin declined by as much as 6% over the past 24 hours, as LUNA dropped 96% and SOL fell 30%.",2022-05-11,"It was a sea of red in crypto markets on Wednesday as stablecoin woes kept some traders on edge.
Terra's LUNA token plunged for the third consecutive day, declining by as much as 96% over the past 24 hours. LUNA was meant to be a buffer against volatility for the stablecoin TerraUSD (UST), but it has succumbed to extreme selling pressure. The Luna Foundation Guard moved the entirety of its reserves to bitcoin exchanges to defend its UST stablecoin’s 1:1 dollar peg on Wednesday.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Further, the European Commission is considering a ban on large-scale stablecoins, which have become widely used in place of fiat currency, according to a document seen by CoinDesk.
Bitcoin (BTC) declined by as much as 6% over the past 24 hours, compared with a 9% decline in ether (ETH) and a 30% decline in Solana's SOL token. Bitcoin is outperforming most alternative cryptos (altcoins), which typically occurs in a down market because of its lower risk profile relative to smaller tokens.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $29,155, −6.40%
●Ether (ETH): $2,104, −10.31%
●S&P 500 daily close: $3,935, −1.65%
●Gold: $1,853 per troy ounce, +0.71%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.92%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin's trading volume has ticked higher over the past few days, albeit by less than in previous spikes. That could be an initial sign of capitulation as BTC stabilizes at about $30,000.
""The volume surge is especially interesting considering the dwindling spot volumes we have seen during the latest month, as April saw the lowest bitcoin spot volumes since last summer,"" Arcane Research wrote in a report earlier this week. ""The recent uptick in volatility seems to have woken up traders.""
BTC's front-month implied volatility also spiked to its highest level since March. Traders are expecting greater price swings over the short term, although volatility spikes tend to be short-lived.
QCP Capital, a Singapore-based crypto trading firm, noted large amounts of put demand from its option trading desk this week, which pushed BTC and ETH risk reversals (calls minus puts) even more negative from -8% to -15%. QCP expects more volatility over the short term.
The chart below shows a rise in BTC's put/call ratio, which suggests bearish sentiment among option traders. The ratio is at its highest level since February, which preceded an upswing in price.
Further, open interest in bitcoin's perpetual swaps market surged to a new high on Tuesday. That suggests an increase in leverage among derivative traders, which typically leads to sharp price swings – a relief rally or breakdown.
Still, the cost to fund long positions (funding rate) remains neutral, which means some traders are still willing to increase exposure to BTC despite the current stress. Typically, funding rates collapse during sell-offs.
Terra to the ground: The Terra blockchain’s native token, LUNA, plunged to as low as $1, shedding 96% of its value in just a day. LUNA is supposed to absorb price shocks of the blockchain algorithmic stablecoin, TerraUSD (UST), but UST’s failure to regain its $1 peg made LUNA virtually worthless. Some traders betted on LUNA to recover on the futures market, but after prices continued nosediving, liquidations amounted to $106 million. Read more here
Contagion spreads to algos: UST’s crisis puts immense pressure on other algorithmic stablecoins. Neutrino USD (USDN), the stablecoin of the Waves decentralized finance protocol, seems to be the first to shake: USDN dropped below 80 cents on certain exchanges from its $1 peg, while the protocol's native token, WAVES, fell by 26% in a day. Delphi Digital reported earlier this week that the FRAX, FEI and USDN stablecoins are facing the same danger as UST because of their similarity in design and weak points. Read more here
Stepn up: Stepn, a ""move-to-earn"" application on the Solana (SOL) blockchain that allows users to get cryptocurrency rewards from walking or jogging, is getting traction in digital-asset markets. The fitness app has grown to more than 300,000 daily active users in a few months, while its native token GMT is traded at 17 times its launch price in March. “This actually has value in the long run,” Fundstrat’s Will McEvoy said. Read more here
Listen 🎧: The CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast takes a deep dive into the Fed and recent market volatility.
UST’s Do Kwon Was Behind Earlier Failed Stablecoin, Ex-Terra Colleagues Say: Basis Cash, an algorithmic stablecoin project founded by the anonymous “Rick” and “Morty” in 2020, was actually the work of Terraform Labs employees.
Coinbase Shares Plunge as Weak Earnings Prompt Near-Term Caution: Wall Street analysts lowered share price targets for the crypto exchange after its first-quarter earnings report.
Germany Publishes First Nationwide Tax Guide for Crypto: The finance ministry's letter deals with the income tax treatment of mining, staking, lending, hard forks and airdrops.
Global Financial Stability Watchdog FSB Says It Could Write Crypto Rulebook: The Financial Stability Board joins tax and money-laundering bodies in responding to calls for coordinated international action to regulate the industry.
Nubank, Brazil’s Largest Digital Bank, Launches Bitcoin and Ether Trading: The trading and custody service is being provided by blockchain infrastructure company Paxos.
5 US States Issue Emergency Orders to Shut Down Metaverse Casino With Alleged Russian Ties: A multi-state cease-and-desist letter issued Wednesday calls the Flamingo Casino Club “simply a high-tech scam.”
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
86,357,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/11/regulators-should-pay-attention-to-ust/,Regulators Should Pay Attention to UST,A stablecoin de-pegged. People lost money. It ain’t great.,2022-05-11,"Over the weekend, algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) broke its peg. It broke it again on Monday and has yet to recover. Regulators may have to take a closer look at this particular model of stablecoin.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
TerraUSD, a dollar-pegged algorithmic stablecoin, lost its peg twice over the past few days and hasn’t regained it since its last decoupling.
The UST collapse may pose a number of risks, ranging from investor/retail to institutional. While this is a relatively small-cap cryptocurrency and its footprint is relatively contained, it still has some major implications for the sector, particularly if it spooks lawmakers or regulators already concerned about stablecoin collapse.
UST’s price fell to 23 cents and has a 24-hour high of 92 cents. This would be a somewhat normal amount of crypto volatility, but the added twist here is UST is supposed to be a stablecoin, meaning its price should be 1:1 to the U.S. dollar.
If you’re deep into crypto and/or have followed this story closely, go ahead and jump down to the “Outside Impact” subheading.
For new readers of this newsletter, or for those who don’t normally follow stablecoins that in depth, the idea is you have a cryptocurrency whose value is stable relative to another asset, such as the dollar, which you can then use as an intermediate unit of exchange or to buy goods and services using crypto without having to worry about market volatility.
There are a few ways to achieve this type of price stability. Stablecoins like USDT, USDC and BUSD are backed by reserves. The issuers say that for every unit of their respective stablecoin in circulation, there is a matching U.S. dollar in a bank account somewhere.
Stablecoins like the now-defunct diem (formerly libra) intended to be issued by an organization launched by Meta (formerly Facebook) would have been backed by a basket of different assets. In the original libra’s case, this would have been a basket of various currencies.
Algorithmic stablecoins are different. Rather than being backed 1:1 by dollars or other currency, the idea is you have two tokens, the stablecoin itself and a sister token that is issued (created) or burned (destroyed) as needed to maintain the stablecoin’s price.
This sister token (named terra but with the ticker LUNA; I’m just going to refer to it as LUNA for the purposes of this newsletter) can be invested in tools that make the Terra ecosystem more valuable. In theory, UST should always be redeemable for LUNA at the price of $1 per UST.
According to the Luna Foundation Guard, a Singapore-registered non-profit entity meant to support UST’s price stability, arbitraging trades is one way that LUNA can be used to maintain its peg.
“Unlike other stablecoins that are backed by fixed deposits of the pegged fiat currency or over-collateralized in another [decentralized finance] asset, the value of Terra’s family of stablecoins is maintained through a system of arbitrage incentives, open market operations, and dynamic protocol levers that maintain robust peg stability and scalability of its supply without the centralized control or capital-inefficient designs of incumbents,” the Luna Foundation Guard’s website says.
Anyways:
So, yeah, the peg broke a little bit.
It’s worth noting that the 24-hour high – 85 cents – means UST hasn’t regained its peg in over a day (since Monday, really).
A lot of people lost or are losing money on UST and/or LUNA. Institutions are likely in a similar boat, and there are broader market implications as well.
LFG was rumored to be seeking up to $1.5 billion in funding to help prop up UST’s peg, even as LFG loaned close to $1.4 billion in bitcoin (BTC) for the same purpose.
So I have to imagine regulators are paying close attention. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen already brought UST up during a U.S. Senate Banking Committee hearing as a representative of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC).
“I would note that there was a report just this morning … that a stablecoin known as terraUSD had experienced a run and had declined in value,” Yellen told Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) on Tuesday. “I think that simply illustrates that this is a rapidly growing product and there are risks to financial stability and we need a framework.”
Toomey seems to disagree about the risk aspect: He told reporters on Wednesday that because UST is not backed by reserves in the same way fully backed stablecoins are, they don’t post the same kind of financial stability risk.
Still, it does seem that whatever is happening with LUNA and UST is having some influence on the broader crypto market.
The question is which regulator even has jurisdiction over this sector.
And LUNA/UST themselves, without problems, might have securities law tie-ups
Back in 2018, a project called Basis raised over $130 million to create an algorithmic stablecoin with a two-token structure, similar to LUNA and UST.
The project refunded investors after the Securities and Exchange Commission warned that the company might violate federal law if it did not limit itself to accredited investors.
As an aside, this project was resurrected in 2020 by some anonymous developers who felt that being anonymous would insulate them from regulators. One of these anonymous individuals was none other than Do Kwon, the face of the Terra ecosystem and the founder of Terraform Labs, which initially launched UST and LUNA.
What’s more, we know the SEC has Kwon on its radar – officials at the regulatory agency famously served him a subpoena during a New York conference in 2021 tied to Mirror Protocol, another project in which he’s involved.
Banking regulators or those tasked with overseeing the financial institutions that backed LUNA may also have questions, particularly if the companies under their purview are suddenly heavily down on their investments. Furthermore, there may not be any single federal regulator able to oversee some of the institutions that invested in LUNA, which could be good or bad depending on whether they’ve lost significant amounts of their investors’ money – some of the earlier investors may have made significant returns if they closed their positions out or sold any equity they may have gained through later funding rounds.
Congress will likely pay attention at some point as well.
Ron Hammond of the Blockchain Association said while stablecoins have been on Congress’s radar for a while now, all the bills addressing this sector of the crypto world have focused on asset-backed stablecoins.
“That's completely changed,” he said. “It's changed a lot of conversations.”
Algorithmic stablecoins are now definitely things lawmakers are paying attention to, but how they might approach this is unclear.
Moreover, it’s going to take some time to figure out exactly what happened, what the risks are and whether there are additional risks.
This is the type of situation that might put pressure on Congress, though just the fact that real people are getting hurt by this situation.
Lisa Cook has officially been confirmed to be a member of the Federal Reserve’s Board of Governors.
In Estonia, the Party’s Over for 'Hippie' Crypto Firms: Estonia enacted a new crypto licensing law requiring local exchanges and other businesses to abide by some strict new rules, including capital reserve requirements, know-your-customer requirements and governance structures. Something like 90% of the country’s crypto firms may leave as a result.
Typo Moves $36M in Seized JUNO Tokens to Wrong Wallet: Juno is a crypto project that airdropped tokens to investors and, in what may have been a genuinely novel governance episode, decided to penalize one airdrop recipient who may have gamed the system to gain more tokens than he should have. This was all very decentralized and then the confiscated tokens were sent to a wallet no one can access by mistake.
(BuzzFeed News) Sometimes I read something and think, “yeah that makes sense.” This was not one of those times.
(Vice) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) purchased location data on “tens of millions” of phones in the U.S. to track people’s compliance with COVID-19 lockdowns and identify patterns, Vice reported. The data came from data brokers like SafeGraph, a Peter Thiel-backed firm that aggregates this type of information.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
87,179,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/11/usts-do-kwon-was-behind-earlier-failed-stablecoin-ex-terra-colleagues-say/,"UST’s Do Kwon Was Behind Earlier Failed Stablecoin, Ex-Terra Colleagues Say","Basis Cash, an algorithmic stablecoin project founded by the anonymous “Rick” and “Morty” in 2020, was actually the work of Terraform Labs employees.",2022-05-11,"Do Kwon, the CEO of Terra creator Terraform Labs, was one of the pseudonymous co-founders behind the failed algorithmic stablecoin Basis Cash, CoinDesk has learned.
Basis Cash (BAC) was a closely watched revival in decentralized finance (DeFi) circles when it launched on Ethereum in late 2020, just before the launch of terraUSD (UST), Terra’s flagship stablecoin. Like UST, BAC sought to maintain a $1 peg through code, not collateral.
But it failed: The token of this long-abandoned project never achieved its target of dollar parity, sank below $1 in early 2021 and was trading well below 1 cent on Wednesday. Now history appears to be repeating: Over the last three days, UST sank precipitously below its peg, going as low as 27 cents in early morning U.S. hours Wednesday.
UST’s depegging has shocked crypto markets and regulators alike as the once-$15 billion stablecoin has continued its downward spiral. While BAC’s $54.5 million footprint was far smaller in impact, it offers a historical data point for observers grappling with the feasibility of algorithmic stablecoins.
Hyungsuk Kang, a former engineer at Terraform Labs (TFL), said Basis Cash was, in fact, a side project from some of Terra’s early creators, including himself and Kwon. Kang ultimately left TFL to build a Terra competitor called Standard Protocol.
“Basis Cash wasn’t tested at the moment, and we weren’t even sure” it would work, Kang said. Kwon “wanted to just test it out. He said that this was a pilot project for doing that.”
Another Basis Cash builder who spoke to CoinDesk on condition of anonymity confirmed that Do Kwon and TFL employees were behind the project.
Both Kang and the anonymous employee tell CoinDesk Kwon was “Rick Sanchez,” the pseudonymous co-founder. CoinDesk also reviewed internal “Basis Cash Korea (BCK)” chat logs in which Kwon alludes to himself as “Rick.”
(Kwon and his Basis Cash co-founder “Morty” borrowed their pseudonyms from the popular animated TV show “Rick and Morty.”)
Kwon did not respond to CoinDesk’s requests for comment.
Basis Cash never reached the heights of other Kwon-linked crypto projects. Its total value locked (TVL) briefly peaked at $174 million in February 2021, two orders of magnitude below Terra’s $30 billion TVL before this week’s historic sell-off.
Revealing the real name behind an online pseudonym (even a long-discarded one) is not a decision CoinDesk takes lightly. Our default position is to respect the privacy of pseudonymous actors with established reputations under their well-known handles unless there is an overwhelming public interest in revealing their real-world identities.
In this case, there is such public interest as Kwon’s UST stablecoin death spirals, wreaking havoc across the broader cryptocurrency market. Amid this precarious situation, investors deserve to know that UST was not Kwon’s sole attempt at making an algorithmic stablecoin work.
Basis Cash and its promise of an algorithmic stablecoin predated crypto Rick and Morty.
An anonymous team of builders – mostly employees of Terraform Labs, according to chat logs reviewed by CoinDesk – modeled Basis Cash after an earlier project called Basis (formerly known as Basecoin).
Basis, an erstwhile venture capital darling, raised $133 million before shutting its doors in 2018 over regulatory concerns. Founder Nader Al-Naji then said that “there would be no way” for Basis’s peg maintenance tokens to avoid securities designations; he shuttered the project rather than fight it out in court.
(Al-Naji would later launch a controversial crypto startup under a pseudonym before ultimately doxxing himself under pressure.)
Read more: 'Basis Cash' Launch Brings Defunct Stablecoin Into the DeFi Era
But Basis’s algorithmic ideals continued to float around stablecoin circles right on through to the heat of DeFi summer 2020, when Rick and Morty stepped in. Kwon and other algorithmic stablecoin adherents have long argued that the decentralized finance space needs a decentralized stable currency without censorship risk or central points of failure. Such an approach contrasts with that of market-leading stablecoins like Tether’s USDT and Circle’s USDC, which maintain their $1 peg by (in theory) backing every digital dollar with their centralized treasuries.
“Yo degens, anyone remember what Basis was? It was one of the early ‘DeFi’ algorithmic stablecoins with high ambitions, but it was shut down due to SEC-related risks,” said Rick’s since-deleted Telegram account in the Basis Cash Telegram channel on Aug. 20, 2020. “Today we’re bringing Basis back from the grave.”
Apparently intrigued by the early ideas behind Basis, Do Kwon directed a select group of TFL employees to resurrect what eventually became Basis Cash, Kang and another early TFL engineer say. The Korea-based project was envisioned as a way to test out the core concepts of the original Basis without falling prey to U.S. regulatory pitfalls.
CoinDesk’s sources say Kwon deliberately distanced himself from the day-to-day operations of the project, though he proposed most of the core ideas behind Basis Cash and its underlying token model. Analogous to UST, which relies on a token-burn mechanic involving its sister coin LUNA, BAC relies on a bonding mechanism to maintain its $1 peg.
Kwon also appeared to serve as a spokesperson for the project on Twitter and other forums under his “Rick” pseudonym (CoinDesk cannot confirm whether others ever filled in as “Rick,” but Kang, the other Basis Cash builder, and chat logs suggest the moniker primarily belonged to Kwon).
On its website, Basis Cash describes itself as a “Decentralized Stablecoin with an Algorithmic Central Bank,” and in a November 2020 interview with CoinDesk, “Rick” shared a vision for Basis Cash similar to that for UST.
“In the long term, we look forward to seeing Basis Cash be used widely as a base layer primitive such that there is organic demand for the asset in many DeFi and commercial settings,” he said over Telegram at the time.
One of the first examples of an algorithmic stablecoin to be tested in the wild, Basis Cash never found its footing. Game theory and smart contracts were supposed to regulate BAC’s supply to keep it trading at the price of $1, but the token never managed to hold on to its dollar peg.
By all outward appearances, Kwon had nothing to do the Basis Cash project. He has even made statements suggesting he was a critic:
But even amid Basis Cash’s struggles, Kwon’s main account could be spotted from time to time in the project’s Telegram, sans pseudonym.
A user surprised to find Terra’s founder in the Basis Cash Telegram group once asked Kwon what he was doing there.
“I like studying new things. Especially old things that are new again,” he responded.
Zack Seward contributed reporting.
UPDATE (May 11, 18:52 UTC): Adds section on Kwon’s Basis Cash Twitter criticisms."
88,54,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/terras-luna-drops-to-under-8-after-90-weekly-plunge/,Terra’s LUNA Drops to Almost $1 After 90% Weekly Plunge,"Value locked on Anchor, Terra’s largest DeFi protocol, dropped some $11 billion in the past two days.",2022-05-11,"Terra's LUNA continued its third consecutive day of sliding as the token fell 96% in the past 24 hours to reach price levels previously seen in August 2021.
Anchor, the decentralized finance (DeFi) platform that provides yields on UST deposits, saw total value locked (TVL) fall by $11 billion in the past two days. The drop came after TVL peaked at $17 billion just a week ago.
LUNA fell to almost $1.30 at the time of writing on Wednesday as the depegging of the UST stablecoin with U.S. dollars contributed to waning sentiment among traders for LUNA.
Selling pressure on LUNA came as its parent foundation issued 46 million tokens in the past day to maintain UST’s 1:1 peg with the U.S. dollar, data shows.
The price action represented one of the biggest drops for a major cryptocurrency. Data shows LUNA's price has dropped 90% in the past week and 7% in the past hour alone. The token is now down 92% since lifetime highs of $119 in April 2022, just more than a month ago.
Social sentiment on social media sites for LUNA remained poor among traders. Meanwhile, suicide helplines and posts are trending on Terra’s Reddit forum, at time of writing.
UPDATE (May 11, 12:30 UTC): Updates headline and story to reflect the latest price of LUNA."
89,88,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/11/ust-falls-to-035-terra-futures-see-106m-in-liquidations/,"UST Falls to 35 Cents, Terra Futures See $106M in Liquidations",Some 58% of LUNA traders were betting on higher prices even as the tokens fell yesterday.,2022-05-11,"Futures traders lost $106 million on Terra’s LUNA token in the past 24 hours as prices fell below $7.
Data shows some 58% of traders were placing futures bets on higher LUNA prices despite Tuesday’s drop. That move accounted for over $63 million in liquidations, a higher-than-usual figure and one of the largest in the history of LUNA futures.
However, $387 million in open interest – or the amount of unsettled futures contracts – continues to exist at writing time, suggesting there could be more liquidations or volatile price action ahead as traders take profits or get liquidation.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are backed by a basket of assets, such as LUNA and bitcoin (BTC), without depending on any centralized third party to hold those assets. This week, however, UST lost its peg and fell to as low as 66 cents on Monday night before recovering to the 90-cent level on Tuesday.
Wednesday was not as kind in terms of recovery. UST fell to under 35 cents Wednesday morning as trader sentiment around the stablecoin dropped. This was despite the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), a non-profit formed earlier this year to maintain a reserve backing for LUNA, liquidating its bitcoin holdings in an effort to try and save UST’s peg.
LUNA’s drop was among the steepest for a major cryptocurrency in recent times. Prices fell 85% in the past 24 hours, and 32% in the past hour alone as traders priced in contagion risks to the LUNA tokens after UST lost its peg earlier this week.
Part of LUNA’s decline came as parent firm Terra apparently issued more tokens to sell to the open market and raise money to back UST. As per its design, $1 worth of LUNA can be exchanged for exactly 1 UST, or vice versa. The additional supply could have contributed to LUNA’s tremendous price plunge in the past 24 hours."
90,145,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/12/kevin-zhou-on-usts-roller-coaster-ride-and-where-it-goes-from-here/,Kevin Zhou on UST's Roller-Coaster Ride and Where It Goes From Here,"The Galois Capital co-founder foresaw the problems with UST, and joined CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” to discuss what could happen to it now.",2022-05-12,"For months now, Kevin Zhou, the co-founder of hedge fund Galois Capital and former head of trading at digital asset exchange Kraken, has been sounding the alarm on the LUNA and UST issuer, Terraform Labs.
Just today, Terra briefly halted its blockchain, citing inflation for LUNA and the potential for government attacks after the price of the token plunged to less than 2 cents.
And in the span of 72 hours, the Terra ecosystem, which includes the LUNA token and UST, among other algorithmic stablecoins, has been in free fall. LUNA’s price has fallen by more than $80, while UST, the stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar, dropped to 37 cents earlier Thursday.
Despite his concerns, Zhou has been taken aback by how quickly things have turned south for the Terra ecosystem. “Even if it happened in slow motion, even if it was something like a bank walk, it was more about this thing not being solvent,” Zhou said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.”
But in the end it was inevitable, according to Zhou, who added that the “mechanism was flawed, and it didn’t play out as expected.”
In the aftermath, Terra has extended a proposal to its users that would burn 1 billion UST (more than $690 million) to save the stablecoin using the community’s UST. It said it would also increase the circulation of LUNA, which supports UST, to 100 million tokens, in an effort to push UST back to $1.
Financial firms including BlackRock (BLK) and Gemini are quashing conspiracy theories that the firms were involved in the collapse of UST. On social media, the companies said they don’t trade UST.
Zhou underscored the sentiment, and pointed to problems with compliance as to why the financial firms would not be able to touch these kinds of assets.
While the markets have been in flux due to UST’s collapse, millions of hundreds of people have been affected. “A lot of people have lost their homes, tons of money and maybe their life savings,” Zhou said.
Sentiment around the Terra ecosystem will further worsen, Zhou added, in part because it's “not even just the mechanical death spiral, but also a psychological one.”
Looking back, the red flags were there, when founder Do Kwon purchased massive amounts of bitcoin (BTC) and began taking in millions of dollars from investors. Though it may not have been a bad move, it did reveal a more important point. “It signaled to the market that they no longer believed in their own narrative,” Zhou said.
Now, as Terra looks to restore UST’s $1 peg, Zhou said it's possible it may be able to do so, but not guaranteed. He noted that Terra should have revalued its currency earlier on and allowed users to take a massive haircut, which may have relieved some of the selling pressure on LUNA.
But at this point, “we’re just undergoing hyperinflation of LUNA in order to support the exit of UST, and now we have to just let it happen.”
Terra’s proposal is good, but not good enough, according to Zhou. “At the end of the day, all of this bad debt has to get flushed out and we’re still in the early innings of that,” Zhou said."
91,52,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/12/luna-issuer-terra-halts-blockchain-after-week-of-losses/,"LUNA, UST Issuer Terra Restarts Blockchain After Brief Shutdown","The price of LUNA fell too low to prevent governance attacks, Terraform Labs tweeted when it announced the network had been halted.",2022-05-12,"The Terra blockchain restarted around 1:45 p.m. ET Thursday after validators briefly halted the network to implement a patch that would prevent new actors from staking on it after the terra token (LUNA) fell to below 2 cents earlier in the day.
A block explorer confirmed the network had restarted after Terraform Labs, the company behind the Terra ecosystem, tweeted that the network had halted at block height 7603700. Terraform said the price of LUNA fell too low to ""prevent governance attacks,"" citing LUNA inflation as one factor. By late Thursday, LUNA had fallen to less than 1 cent from nearly $120 in early April.
The Terra ecosystem includes the LUNA governance token and several algorithmic stablecoins, including TerraUSD (UST).
The blockchain being halted meant no transactions with UST, LUNA or Terra's other cryptocurrencies could be processed. Token holders had to wait for the blockchain to restart.
Terraform said the network's validators ""will coordinate"" to restart the network shortly, once a patch to limit how many new parties could act as validators on the network was applied.
LUNA's price plummeted by over $80 in three days. UST, one of the paired stablecoins, broke its peg to the U.S. dollar on Monday, dropping to 37 cents at press time. Terraform issued more than 1 billion LUNAs as circulating supply as part of an effort to reduce the selling pressure seen since Monday.
The UST stablecoin, which is supposed to maintain price parity with the U.S. dollar, lost its peg over the last weekend, but briefly recovered. It fell again on Monday, dropping to as low as 27 cents and has yet to recover its peg with the dollar.
The LUNA governance token, which is meant to act as a buffer keeping UST at $1, has lost value in conjunction, but didn't fall below UST until sometime between Wednesday and Thursday.
UPDATE (May 12, 2022, 16:40 UTC): Updated with additional context.
UPDATE (May 12, 2022, 18:07 UTC): Updated with confirmation that the Terra blockchain had restarted.
UPDATE (May 13, 2022, 00:48 UTC): Updated with LUNA price falling to less than 1 cent in second paragraph.)"
92,168,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/ether-futures-lead-12b-in-liquidations-crypto-market-cap-drops-16-overnight/,"Ether Futures Lead $1.2B in Liquidations, Crypto Market Cap Drops 16% Overnight",The past 24 hours were among of the biggest crypto market drops in recent months.,2022-05-12,"Ether (ETH) futures led liquidation losses in the past 24 hours as crypto markets lost over 16% of their overall capitalization, data from multiple sources shows.
Liquidations in the crypto market happen when a trader has insufficient funds to fund a margin call – or a call for extra collateral demanded by the exchange to keep the trading position funded. They’re especially common in high-risk trading due to the high volatility of assets. It occurs in both margins and futures trading.
Traders of ether futures lost $333 million to liquidations as the asset lost 22% to drop under the $1,900 level. This was the highest among all cryptos, with bitcoin futures seeing $330 million in losses and futures tracking Terra’s LUNA racking up $130 million in losses.
Losses exceeded $1.2 billion in the past 24 hours, the highest so far this year. They came as major cryptocurrencies saw steep drops: Bitcoin (BTC) fell 11%, BNB Chain’s BNB lost 26%, and Solana’s SOL lost 37%. Terra’s LUNA fell out of the top 10 cryptos by market capitalization to the 81st rank – it fell 96% in the past 24 hours to under 40 cents.
Crypto exchange OKX saw $393 million in liquidations, the highest among all crypto exchanges, followed by Binance at $389 million and Bybit at $155 million.
Data shows 83% of all futures were long, or betting on higher prices, despite weakness in the overall market earlier this week. Much of the systemic risk arose from terraUSD (UST), an algorithmic stablecoin issued by Terraform Labs, losing its peg with the U.S. dollar and causing a cascading effect on decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms running on Terra.
Contagion associated with UST likely spread over to the broader market alongside inflation fears and weak CPI data, fueling a drop in crypto prices.
Meanwhile, data shows open interest – or the amount of unsettled futures contracts – fell 10% in the past 24 hours, implying traders removed liquidity and exited positions in anticipation of further volatility."
93,279,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/12/first-mover-americas-btc-drops-2020-levels-of-25k-and-tether-loses-1-peg/,First Mover Americas: BTC Drops to 2020 Levels of $25K; Tether Loses $1 Peg,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 12, 2022.",2022-05-12,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Market Moves: Bitcoin traders took a beating overnight as long liquidations surged, while Tether's USDT stablecoin lost its $1 peg.
Feature: We take a look at what Terra thinks is the easiest way to return the UST to a peg.
Bitcoin (BTC) briefly hit lows of $25,200 in the early hours of Thursday morning as Tether's stablecoin USDT lost its $1 peg, continuing this week's carnage in crypto markets.
Bitcoin is trading down 20% over the last seven days and has not seen levels this low since December 2020.
USDT, the world’s largest stablecoin by market capitalization, dipped to 97 cents in Asian trading hours, losing its parity with the U.S. dollar. It hit as low as 96 cents on Coinbase.
Terra’s UST stablecoin also continued to flounder, hitting levels as low as $0.28, according to CoinDesk data.
“UST de-pegging has caused market-wide ripple effects,” said Charles Storry, head of growth at Phuture, a crypto index platform. “What we are seeing now is panic. People running for the exits and losing faith.”
In traditional markets, the S&P 500 has lost over 4.5% this week. The Nasdaq composite fell to its lowest level since November 2020, falling by more than 3%.
Over the last seven days, BTC has not pushed above the $35,000 mark, according to data from Messari.
Martha Reyes, head of research at Bequant, said in an email with CoinDesk that the markets in meltdown might present an opportunity for institutional players to start building positions and push stablecoin regulation to provide more confidence.
“While we can't call the bottom and correlations among asset classes remain elevated, bitcoin has survived corrections of 70-80% in the past. This may be an opportunity for institutions to build positions at better levels,” said Reyes.
She added: “The uncertainty around stablecoins is a concern and could lead to another flush-out but we may finally get the much-needed regulatory framework that could entice institutions in. Regulators tend to be reactive, so this may be the catalyst for greater stablecoin regulation.”
Liquidations
BTC long liquidations took a beating overnight too. According to data from Coinglass, over the last 24 hours, $430 million was liquidated.
Long liquidations took up $277 million and shorts accounted for $198 million.
“This is a standard event you see in conventional futures markets and is now taking its toll on the crypto markets due to the nascent asset and the lack of experienced investors using these instruments,” said Hashdex’s head of Europe, Laurent Kssis.
According to Kssis, the fact that long liquidations are dominating the market could push the price of BTC down further.
“$30,000 was the key support level, so $25,000 could be a resistance now the $30K level has been broken,” said Kssis.
Citadel Securities, BlackRock, Gemini Slam Social Media Accusations of Involvement With UST Collapse A conspiracy theory that began on 4chan and was amplified by Cardano founder Charles Hoskinson has been met with swift denials by all parties
Terra Proposes Token Burn and Increase in Pool Size to Stop UST Dilution Terra believes that decreasing the amount of UST in circulation, while increasing the amount of available LUNA, is the easiest way to return the UST to a peg.
Terra’s LUNA Has Dropped 99.7% in Under a Week. That’s Good for UST LUNA tokens lost 96% in the past 24 hours alone, prompting more to be minted in a mechanism that helped lift the UST price.
Cathie Wood's Ark Invest Grabs More Than Half a Million Coinbase Shares as Exchange's Stock Plummets Shares of Coinbase Global (COIN) plunged 26.4% in post-market trading on Wednesday, after reporting disappointing first-quarter earnings.
Ether Futures Lead $1.2B in Liquidations, Crypto Market Cap Drops 16% Overnight Ether futures led liquidation losses in the past 24 hours as crypto markets lost over 16% of their overall capitalization, data from multiple sources shows.
Terra-Based DeFi Protocol Anchor Proposes Cutting UST Yield Rates to 4% The proposal comes amid ongoing concerns regarding the long-term stability of Terra tokens LUNA and UST.
By Sam Reynolds
Terra believes that the downwards pressure on UST’s peg is diluting LUNA, impeding recovery for both while creating an excess of UST, and the way to solve this is through burning UST and increasing the available pool of LUNA.
“The primary obstacle is expelling the bad debt from UST circulation at a clip fast enough for the system to restore the health of on-chain spreads,” said Terra in a Tweet.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are supposed to be automatically pegged to the price of another currency. As explained in a prior CoinDesk learn article, traders can swap LUNA for UST at $1 regardless of the market price because the algorithms in the back end will manage the supply of LUNA creating enough scarcity to justify the $1.
A token burn refers to taking crypto out of circulation on the blockchain. It can be thought of as a deflationary event, because it would increase the value of the remaining blockchain. For token holders, it would be a similar event to a share buyback.
In a proposal put forward to token holders, Terra said that it wants to burn the nearly 1 billion UST (roughly $690 million) in the community pool while increasing the Base Pool of LUNA available to 100 million which in turn increases minting capacity to over $1 billion. This will help expedite the outflows of UST from the system, and thus pushing it back closer to its peg, while pushing down the price of Luna.
“Currently, the burning of UST is too slow to keep pace with the demand for excess UST to exit the system, which is hindered by the BasePool size,” reads the proposal. “Eliminating a significant chunk of the excess UST supply at once will alleviate much of the peg pressure on UST.”
Some comments on the proposal asked if this happened because of a bug in Terra’s coding, or if it was also a product of a broader market downturn driven by the decline in bitcoin’s price.
Validators of the network are able to vote for this proposal. According to a vote tracker, the Yes side has received 50.47% of the vote while the abstain side has 49.1%. 87.8% of eligible voters have already cast a ballot, and the pass threshold is 50%.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Lyllah Ledesma and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
94,203,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/first-mover-asia-terras-planetary-collapse-is-taking-down-crypto-lending-altcoins-plummet/,"First Mover Asia: Terra’s Planetary Collapse Is Taking Down Crypto Lending, Altcoins Plummet","Data suggests that many traders are moving their assets from DeFi platforms; bitcoin rallies after falling below $26,000 in Thursday trading.",2022-05-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin struggles; altcoins fare worse.
Insights: Terra's implosion threatens crypto lending protocols.
Technician's take: BTC is oversold and could see a short-term relief bounce.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,127 +1%
Ether (ETH): $1,968 -5.1%
Bitcoin had a forgettable Thursday. As for altcoins, the less said, the better.
After hitting a new 16-month low earlier in the day, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at $29,100, up slightly over the past 24 hours. That was little comfort for investors who have watched it plunge with other digital assets the past few days, swept up with investor fears following the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin against its 1:1 dollar peg. Bitcoin was already reeling from wider concerns about high inflation and geopolitical turmoil.
Still, other cryptocurrencies fared far worse, a sign of the risk-off environment that has investors veering away quickly from any asset with a whiff of risk. Ether was trading at about $1,960, off about 5% after dipping under $1,800 earlier in the day, the first time since last July it had sunk below that level. In a sea of major crypto red, SOL, CRO, ADA and MATIC were each down roughly 10% at one point. SAND and ATOM were off 14.5% and 9%, respectively.
Meanwhile, Terra blockchain's LUNA token plunged below 2 cents on Thursday, prompting validators to briefly halted the network to implement a patch that would prevent new actors from staking on it. Just a month ago, LUNA had reached a high of $120. UST was recently trading at about 33 cents, down about 54%.
Equity markets did better, rallying late to finish slightly down from where they started the day. Still, rising prices loomed large as a report Thursday found that mortgage rates had climbed to 5.3%, their highest rate since 2009.
In an interview on Thursday with the public radio business show ""Marketplace,"" Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said that he couldn't guarantee a soft economic landing as the Fed increases interest rates to tame inflation. ""Whether we can execute a soft landing or not, it may actually depend on factors that we don’t control,"" Powell said.
""The higher-than-expected inflation figures in the U.S. have prompted investors to move towards selling risky assets, impacting cryptocurrencies in the process as well,"" Daniel Takieddine, CEO of Middle East and North Africa region of brokerage BDSwiss, wrote in an email. ""The move towards a rapid rise in interest rates could keep cryptocurrencies on a sliding trend for a longer period of time as investors move to safer assets.""
He added: ""This bearish trend is further exacerbated by the recent crash of the TerraUSD, which lost its peg to the USD by a large margin. Its fall in value has eroded investors' confidence in the crypto markets and in the stablecoin concept in particular.""
S&P 500: 3,930 -0.1%
DJIA: 31,730 -0.3%
Nasdaq: 11,370 -.06%
Gold: $1,820 -1.8%
Terra's implosion threatens crypto lending protocols
Crypto lending, the backbone of decentralized finance (DeFi), was built in the rubble of the COVID-19-induced crash of March 2020. The prevailing logic behind crypto lending is to provide a smoother off ramp than rapid-fire selling, which depresses prices.
But as the collapse of Terra’s LUNA and UST tokens has sent shock waves throughout the industry, accelerating the decline of the price of bitcoin, knocking tether off its peg and reiterating concerns from institutions and regulators about the viability of the asset class, crypto lending appears to be its next victim.
Data now suggests that there’s a cavalcade of people looking for an exit.
The total locked-in value for DeFi is at $150 billion, down from just under $240 billion at the start of the year and from $230 billion a month ago, according to Glassnode data.
Data would suggest that many traders are moving their crypto out of DeFi protocols and into stablecoins like USDC with plans to redeem them (stablecoins like USDC and USDT can be redeemed for U.S. dollars upon request).
The supply of USDC, used by institutions and U.S.-based traders because of its regulatory compliance, is now just below $48.5 billion, down from $53 billion at the beginning of March. A similar trend is being seen with Glassnode’s data on exchange net positions. Since mid-April, it has flipped to red, now accelerating with Glassnode reporting daily outflows in the $2 billion range.
At the same time, lending protocols like Compound are reporting large declines in stablecoin supply. Compound, for instance, reports an 11% decline in USDC supply. All the while, gas trackers show that in the last week gas fees from USDC are up 175%, while gas usage at lending protocol Aave is up 705% over the past week.
Lending protocol prices aren’t taking well to this dash for the exit. Across the board, the tokens of major lending protocols are down with aave falling 53% over the past week. Celsius has dropped 55.6% over the past week and compound has fallen 49% during that time.
Despite less USDC in circulation, there doesn’t seem to be a particular increase in demand for it. Given the coming bear market, trading tempo will likely decrease and planned investment into crypto infrastructure might slow. The case and point for this is the yield offered by Alameda Research’s syndicated loans powered by the Maple Finance protocol.
Alameda’s most recent USDC-denominated loan, which launched last week just as the Luna crisis emerged, is now offering only a 6.5% yield. When the project began last November, 8.5% was the available yield. Although there is less USDC available, Alameda is anticipating a slowdown and doesn’t have the same need for it.
The good news from this crisis is that many parts of the infrastructure surrounding crypto are continuing to hold. USDC and Binance’s BUSD, are still at $, and redemptions – even from tether which was briefly knocked off its peg – are being processed on request.
Bitcoin Holding Support Above $27K, Resistance at $35K-$40K
Bitcoin appears to be oversold on the charts, which typically precedes a short-term upswing in price.
The cryptocurrency declined toward $25,400 Thursday afternoon before quickly recovering back above the $27,000 support level.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is the most oversold since January, which preceded a 30% relief rally. This time, however, negative long-term momentum could cap upside moves around the $35,000 resistance level.
Further, BTC registered a countertrend reversal signal on the daily chart, according to DeMARK indicators. That means selling pressure could wane over the next few days as buyers return from the sidelines. Another daily close above $30,000 would confirm the countertrend signal, although there is a low chance of significant upside from here.
HKT/SGT(UTC): Australia Housing Industry Association new home sales (MoM/April)
10 a.m. HKT/SGT (2 a.m. UTC): Speech by Michele Bullock, assistant governor at the Reserve Bank of Australia
3 p.m. HKT/SGT (7 a.m. UTC): Speech by Luis De Guindos, vice-president of the European Central Bank
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
UST Meltdown Continues as Crypto Markets, Communities Suffer. Here’s Where Things Stand
Another 24 hours of painful losses in the crypto markets. ""First Mover"" discussed new details in the TerraUSD drama and markets analysis from Kevin Zhou of Galois Capital, Michael Gronager of Chainalysis and Martin Leinweber of MV Index Solutions.
Terra’s LUNA Has Dropped 99.7% in Under a Week. That’s Good for UST: LUNA tokens lost 96% in the past 24 hours alone, prompting more to be minted in a mechanism that helped lift the UST price.
Tether Loses $1 Peg, Bitcoin Drops to 2020 Levels of Near $24K: Weak sentiment around stablecoins may have contributed to USDT’s de-pegging Thursday morning.
Global Crypto Regulatory Body Is Coming Soon, Says Top Official: A joint body to coordinate efforts at regulating crypto at the global level could become a reality in the next year, according to Ashley Alder, chairman of the International Organization of Securities Commissions.
Terra Proposes Token Burn and Increase in Pool Size to Stop UST Dilution: Terra believes that decreasing the amount of UST in circulation, while increasing the amount of available LUNA, is the easiest way to return the UST to a peg.
Chainalysis Raises $170M at $8.6B Valuation: The crypto sleuthing firm says it tools monitor $1 trillion worth of transactions every month.
Do Kwon Is the Elizabeth Holmes of Crypto: If you promise investors something impossible, is it a crime?
Today's crypto explainer: What You Need to Know Before Buying Bitcoin at an ATM
Other voices: Panic in the crypto market has Janet Yellen's attention (CNN)
""Web 3 has stunned the world by forging a parallel system of finance of unprecedented flexibility and creativity in less than a decade. Cryptographic and economic primitives, or building blocks, such as public key cryptography, smart contracts, proof-of-work and proof-of-stake have led to a sophisticated and open ecosystem for expressing financial transactions. Yet, the economic value finance trades on is generated by humans and their relationships. Because Web 3 lacks primitives to represent such social identity, it has become fundamentally dependent on the very centralized Web 2 structures it aims to transcend, replicating their limitations."" (Glen Weyl, co-author of “Radical Markets"" for CoinDesk) ... ""The economy can only go so fast without overheating. A big problem now is that nobody is sure just how fast that is."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""As Russia’s grinding war pulverizes eastern Ukraine and eats away at the global economy, it is also creating unintended consequences for President Vladimir V. Putin, whose aggression is giving rise to a stronger, Western-aligned security architecture in Europe, the very thing the Russian leader had hoped to weaken."" (The New York Times)
UPDATE (May 13, 2022, 0:15 UTC): Adds comment by Jerome Powell in the prices summary."
95,85,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/12/terra-proposes-token-burn-and-increase-in-pool-size-to-stop-ust-dilution/,Terra Proposes Token Burn and Increase in Pool Size to Stop UST Dilution,Terra believes decreasing the amount of UST in circulation while increasing the amount of available LUNA is the easiest way to return the UST to its dollar peg.,2022-05-12,"Terra, the protocol behind the UST algorithmic stablecoin that has lost its dollar peg and is putting pressure on the price of the LUNA token, plans to burn UST and increase the available pool of LUNA.
“The primary obstacle is expelling the bad debt from UST circulation at a clip fast enough for the system to restore the health of on-chain spreads,” said Terra in a tweet.
Algorithmic stablecoins like UST are supposed to be automatically pegged to the price of another currency, such as the U.S. dollar. As explained here, traders can swap LUNA for UST at $1 regardless of the market price because the algorithms in the back end will manage the supply of LUNA, creating enough scarcity to justify the $1.
A token burn refers to taking crypto out of circulation on the blockchain. It can be thought of as a deflationary event, because it would increase the value of the remaining blockchain. For token holders it would be a similar event to a share buyback.
In a proposal put forward to token holders, Terra said that it wants to burn the nearly 1 billion UST (roughly US$690 million) in the community pool while increasing the Base Pool of LUNA available to 100 million, which in turn increases minting capacity to over $1 billion. This will help expedite the outflows of UST from the system, thus pushing it back closer to its peg while pushing down the price of LUNA.
“Currently, the burning of UST is too slow to keep pace with the demand for excess UST to exit the system, which is hindered by the BasePool size,” reads the proposal. “Eliminating a significant chunk of the excess UST supply at once will alleviate much of the peg pressure on UST.”
Some comments on the proposal asked if this happened because of a bug in LUNA’s coding, or if it was also a product of a broader market downturn driven by the decline in bitcoin’s (BTC) price.
Validators of the network are able to vote for this proposal. According to a vote tracker, the Yes side has received 50.47% of the vote while the abstain side has 49.1%; 87.8% of eligible voters have already cast a ballot, and the pass threshold is 50%."
96,148,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/do-kwon-i-am-heartbroken-over-pain-caused-by-ust-collapse/,Do Kwon: ‘I Am Heartbroken’ Over Pain Caused by UST Collapse,The admission comes after the stunning demise of the Terra blockchain’s flagship project.,2022-05-13,"Terra creator Do Kwon said in a tweet thread he was “heartbroken” about his creations losing functionally all of their value this week.
Kwon, who founded Terraform Labs – creator of the luna (LUNA) governance token, terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and various other cryptocurrencies – said he spent the last several days calling various community members about the tokens’ losing all of their value. Luna, which was worth nearly $120 at the start of April, collapsed in dramatic fashion this week and traded around at less than 1 cent as of press time.
“I still believe that decentralized economies deserve decentralized money – but it is clear that $UST in its current form will not be that money,” he tweeted.
UST, a stablecoin whose value was supposed to remain pegged to the U.S. dollar, lost that peg earlier this week and never recovered.
Kwon pointed to his “revival” plan on Terra’s Agora governance forum for next steps. Posted earlier Friday, the plan envisions distributing ownership in the network across UST and LUNA holders; it acknowledges Terra’s stablecoin as it stands is irrecoverable.
Read more: Do Kwon’s Proposed Terra ‘Revival’ Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge
“While a decentralized economy does need decentralized money, UST has lost too much trust with its users to play the role,” Kwon said there. The blockchain underpinning LUNA and UST was shut down twice by validators over the past day.
Kwon said that he did not sell any of his LUNA or UST during the “incident.”
The situation was exacerbated earlier this week when Terraform Labs and the Luna Foundation Guard, an entity tasked with maintaining the value of UST, appear to have hyperinflated LUNA by printing several billion tokens and dramatically increasing the number of tokens in circulation, further speeding LUNA’s price collapse in a bid to save UST.
The token’s market capitalization fell from $28 billion at the start of May to just around $600 million at press time."
97,282,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/market-wrap-cryptos-are-higher-after-a-volatile-week/,Market Wrap: Cryptos Are Higher After a Volatile Week,Some analysts remain cautious and expect lower price returns for bitcoin over the next few months.,2022-05-13,"Most cryptocurrencies traded higher on Friday as bearish sentiment waned. It appears that short-term buyers have returned from the sidelines, although technical indicators show limited upside from here.
Bitcoin (BTC) returned toward the $30,000 price level and was up by as much as 5% over the past 24 hours. Still, momentum signals remain negative on the charts after BTC's 17% dip over the past week.
For now, cryptos and stocks are experiencing a relief bounce, which could last for a few more days. Alternative cryptos (altcoins) outperformed on Friday, which reflects a greater appetite for risk among traders. For example, ICP, MANA and DOGE rallied by more than 20% over the past 24 hours.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Meanwhile, the Terra blockchain resumed activity on Friday following a nine-hour halt. The LUNA token continued to trade below 1 cent at the time the network was halted.
Also, on Friday, the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust's (GBTC) discount widened to an all-time low of 30.79%. The recent crypto sell-off also may have contributed to a wider GBTC discount. (Grayscale is a CoinDesk sister company.)
●Bitcoin (BTC): $29,980, +5.17%
●Ether (ETH): $2,057, +6.60%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,024, +2.39%
●Gold: $1,808 per troy ounce, −0.88%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.94%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Fewer crypto traders sought refuge in stablecoins during the recent market sell-off. That suggests investors are starting to exit crypto markets.
The chart below, provided by Glassnode, shows the 30-day change in aggregate stablecoin supply (blue) alongside the contribution by stablecoin USDC (red). Since last May, USDC has been a significant contributor to total stablecoin supply growth. Recently, however, USDC has been the primary stablecoin asset experiencing redemption.
Stablecoin supply contraction signals a degree of net capital outflow from the cryptocurrency industry at large, according to Glassnode. ""Overall, there are a number of signals of net weakness in the space, many of which indicate that risk-off sentiment remains the core market position at this time,"" Glassnode wrote in a blog post.
Interestingly, Tether's USDT has seen its supply continue to expand over the same period of USDC outflows. But since the start of April the aggregate stablecoin supply has plateaued.
It remains to be seen if trust in stablecoins will return following Terra's faulty experiment using algorithms. Some stablecoin issuers have assured market participants that not all stablecoins are the same (some are backed by cash-like instruments, while others try to maintain their value based on an algorithm that balances the stablecoin with a partner token). But recent episodes have exposed instability in the so-called stable corner of the crypto universe.
For now, cryptos could face additional volatility ahead, which could keep some buyers on the sidelines (in stablecoins or cash).
Despite the recent price bounce, bitcoin's forward returns following a peak-to-trough decline of 55% or more tend to be flat or negative over the following six months, according to Delphi Digital.
LUNA exchange-traded product issuances halted: VanEck, Valour and 21Shares, all of which offer LUNA-related exchanged-traded products (ETP) in Europe, suspended issuing shares, citing the network’s recent issues, which include two complete shutdowns of the purportedly decentralized network. All three products lost close to 100% this week. Read more here.
Do Kwon’s Terra revival plan: A “Revival Plan” was submitted Friday by the Terraform Labs CEO. It's essentially a restart of the entire Terra blockchain, with network ownership getting distributed entirely to UST and LUNA holders through one billion new tokens. The plan comes as Terra’s terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which is supposed to be pegged to the price of $1, “death spiraled” below 15 cents this week – wiping out over $30 billion in value. Read more here.
ADA price jump: Cardano’s ADA token jumped as much as 40% over the past 24 hours, leading gains among the biggest cryptocurrencies. The cryptocurrency is still down by 82% from its all-time high of $3.10, achieved in September of last year. Some analysts have attributed recent gains to a short-squeeze rally, which occurs when a large number of short sellers exit their positions.
Listen 🎧: With crypto markets trading in the green after a deep slump, the CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast team takes a look at how one of crypto’s most ardent critics is now building something like a blockchain.
Coinbase, MicroStrategy and Other Crypto Stocks Finally See Some Relief After Recent Losses: Shares of many crypto-related stocks had been battered during the week.
Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Discount Widens to All-Time Low of 30.79%: The fund is one of the few ways for stock traders in the U.S. to gain exposure to the price movements of bitcoin.
Nomura Starts Trading Crypto Derivatives, Joining Rivals Goldman, JPMorgan: Nomura carried out bitcoin futures and options trades with derivatives exchange CME Group (CME) and crypto market maker Cumberland DRW.
Elon Musk Says He's Committed to Twitter Deal After Putting It on Hold: The landmark deal under which Tesla (TSLA) CEO Elon Musk buys Twitter (TWTR) and takes it private hit a stumbling block after Musk said he wants to verify the number of fake accounts.
Galaxy Digital Sees Quarter-to-Date Loss of $300M: The Mike Novogratz-led firm said it has a liquidity position of around $1.6 billion, split 50-50 between cash and net digital assets.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day higher.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
98,159,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/13/the-human-cost-of-lunatic-hubris/,The Human Cost of Lunatic Hubris,Terraform Labs' Do Kwon and his collaborators sold a bad bet to thousands of everyday folks. We're beginning to see how immense the harm was.,2022-05-13,"As the collapse of the Terra ecosystem enters its final, definitive stages, signs of the real-world wreckage caused by the flawed virtual project are impossible to miss. On social media and message boards, former LUNA backers are reporting huge losses, despair and hopelessness. Secondhand reports suggest a rash of suicides and attempts.
It's a sobering moment for those of us in the crypto-watching business. I’ve spent a great deal of time over the last two years trying to highlight absurdities in the bubbly crypto market (including predicting luna’s failure), but I still find myself somewhat shocked by just how exposed civilians became to one of the most experimental projects in the industry. And to be explicit, the crypto industry is still best thought of as entirely experimental.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The scale of the loss is, in one sense, easy to understand: It is total.
The Terra ecosystem has entered a hyperinflationary “death spiral.” This fallout was baked into the network’s supposedly stabilizing algorithm, and LUNA will continue to asymptotically approach zero. The UST algorithmic stablecoin price, currently at 18 cents instead of a dollar, will crumble towards zero as well. A ""recovery plan"" posted by Do Kwon this morning is an insulting joke. That wipes out roughly $68 billion, the combined paper value of LUNA and UST at the end of last week. Exchanges continue to facilitate trading in the tokens, a decision with murky ethical implications.
The scale and severity of individual losses is harder to grasp. As a thought experiment, cut LUNA/UST’s total supply cap in half to account for the internal holdings of ecosystem projects and assume outside investors held an average of $20,000 in UST or LUNA before the crash. Dividing $34 billion by $20,00 implies 1.7 million holders lost what 99.9% of the humans on Earth would consider a life-changing amount of money.
Those weren’t all real dollars because many bought LUNA below the May 12 price peak. But paper losses can still be devastating, and many folks did lose real money, particularly those who bought supposedly “stable” UST to farm the 20% yield on the system’s heavily subsidized Anchor lending protocol.
The signs of deep and widespread distress have been mounting all week. Matthew Graham, a crypto VC noted for his accessibility online, reports getting a wave of despairing messages from those caught in the broken system’s catastrophic unwinding. Police have reportedly been called to protect Terra founder Do Kwon’s home in South Korea, where angry investors have reportedly been threatening his safety.
See also: Do Kwon's Proposed Terra 'Revival'
The darkest reports are of people contemplating or following through on self-harm. In a tweet that is no longer public, one former LUNA partisan going by @terranaut3 claimed to know of at least eight people who have taken their own lives in the days since the unwind. The Terra subreddit is full of reports of suicides and attempts, links to mental health hotlines and dire reports of financial immolation. Most of that was posted before the forum was locked two days ago, when LUNA was still trading at hundreds of times its current price. CoinDesk hasn’t confirmed these stories, but they seem all too plausible.
I am not a counselor, but for anyone in this position there is one key practicality: Declaring bankruptcy is a far better option than harming yourself. That’s particularly true in the U.S., where bankruptcy laws in some states could protect you from seizure of your home or automobile.
Crypto washouts aren’t new, but these reports of despairing LUNA holders are novel in one way: a huge number of “normies” appear to have been suckered into buying UST and LUNA. For most of the time that I’ve spent in crypto, the bulk of the money in the system came from people who were actively engaged with crypto ideals or technology, or from investors and traders with big risk appetites.
The 2020-2021 crypto craze was much bigger and had much wider retail reach, so its fallout will be fundamentally different from the deflation of the 2018 crypto bubble. We can certainly expect to see a rush of regulatory scrutiny in response, but crypto insiders should also take time to reflect on whether their behavior has put retail speculators at unnecessary risk.
See also: Is Bitcoin a Risk-On or a Risk-Off Asset? Maybe It's Neither | Opinion
High on the list of examples here is crypto fund manager Mike Novogratz, who famously displayed a huge LUNA tattoo in January and declared himself “officially a Lunatic.” Reports have since surfaced that Novo’s fund actually exited LUNA by March, but if he ever disclosed that walkback it didn’t get remotely the traction of his bullish flag-waving. From the outside, that looks an awful lot like pump-and-dump behavior, in spirit if not substance.
The other shift I hope to see out of this mess is a lot more humility, critical thinking and serious openness to contrary opinions. Before the death spiral began at the start of the week, about 17,000 CoinDesk visitors read my April 22 piece outlining the scenario for LUNA’s failure that ultimately played out. If just a few dozen of those readers took steps to protect themselves before that failure actually happened – heck, if even one reader did – that’s what I’m here for. The next time you see critics and skeptics dismissed as FUDders, attacked and dismissed, just remember: We’re here to help. Let us."
99,126,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/terra-blockchain-resumes-following-9-hour-halt/,Terra Blockchain Resumes Following 9-Hour Halt,Blocks 7607790 and 7607791 came through at around 11:27 UTC Friday.,2022-05-13,"The Terra blockchain has resumed activity following a halt of around nine hours while validators plotted a route out of its ongoing crisis.
The blockchain was halted at block 7607789 slightly after 3:00 UTC Friday. Blocks 7607790 and 7607791 then came through at around 11:27 UTC.
Following the resumption of the blockchain, Terraform Labs, the company behind the Terra ecosystem, tweeted that network validators have disabled on-chain swaps and Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC) protocols have been closed. It encouraged users to ""bridge off-chain assets, such as bETH, to their native chains.""
LUNA was priced at around $0.008 at the time the network was halted, and terraUSD (UST) was at $0.19. At the time of writing, the assets were priced at $0.00003 and $0.16, respectively, according to CoinMarketCap data.
Read more: Terra’s LUNA Has Dropped 99.7% in Under a Week. That’s Good for UST
UPDATE (May 13, 12:57 UTC): Added tweet info in second bullet point."
100,51,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/okx-delists-terras-luna-and-ust-citing-user-protection/,OKX Delists Terra's LUNA and UST Citing User Protection,"Both OKX and Binance ended trading related to the Terra tokens after UST lost its dollar peg and LUNA slumped more than 99%, but Binance has since resumed trading in LUNA.",2022-05-13,"Crypto exchange OKX said it planned to end spot listings of UST and delisted margin and borrowing services for Terra ecosystem tokens such as LUNA, anchor (ANC) and mirror (MIR).
Rival Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, also suspended spot trading for LUNA and UST against its own stablecoin BUSD on Friday, but founder Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao said in a tweet at 15:50 UST that trading in LUNA has since been resumed.
OKX planned to terminate exchange-traded UST trading for bitcoin (BTC), avalanche (AVAX), solana (SOL) and ether (ETH) as of 10:00 UTC, adding to earlier cancellations of the margin trading and borrowing function for LUNA, ANC and MIR. Perpetual swaps were suspended at 8:00 UTC.
“Seismic crypto market movements like we’ve seen this week tend to deliver some pretty brutal lessons,” Lennix Lai, an OKX director, said in an email. “We’re seeing a flight away from direct investment in DeFi (decentralized finance) protocols in the wake of UST breakdown.
“The reality is that centralized exchanges are set up to provide much greater levels of protection for users whatever the markets are doing,” Lai said.
In explaining the reasons for Binance's suspension, Zhao initially tweeted that ""an exponential amount of new LUNA were minted due to flaws in the design of the Terra protocol. Some of our users, unaware of the large amounts of newly minted LUNA outside the exchange, started to buy LUNA again, without understanding that as soon as deposits are allowed, the price will likely crash further. Due to these significant risks, we suspended trading.""
UST slumped to as low as 22 cents earlier this week amid a run on the cryptocurrency. The prices of its related LUNA token dropped 99.7% to pennies on Thursday from levels above $60 earlier this week.
LUNA and other tokens continue to trade on crypto exchanges FTX and Gate at writing time.
""Withdrawals for LUNA and UST will open when the network becomes stable,"" Binance said.
UPDATE (May 13, 11:31 UTC ): Adds Binance suspension to headline, throughout.
UPDATE (May 13, 16:34 UTC ): Updated headline and story with information about Binance's resumption of trading of LUNA."
101,60,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/13/do-kwon-proposes-restart-of-terra-blockchain-as-ust-luna-plummet/,"Do Kwon’s Proposed Terra ‘Revival’ Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge",A “Revival Plan” submitted Friday by the Terraform Labs CEO would redistribute ownership of the network.,2022-05-13,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon, in a forum post submitted 30 minutes ago, proposed a “Terra Ecosystem Revival Plan.”
Kwon’s “Revival Plan” amounts to a restart of the entire Terra blockchain, with network ownership getting distributed entirely to UST and LUNA holders through 1 billion new tokens.
The plan comes as Terra’s terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which is supposed to be pegged to the price of $1, “death spiraled” below 15 cents this week – wiping out over $30 billion in value. UST’s sister token, LUNA, which propped up the stablecoin’s value, has fallen to below a penny (LUNA was worth above $80 just a week ago).
In Friday’s proposal, Kwon, who created the Terra blockchain with his Terraform Labs team, concedes that the Terra ecosystem has experienced total collapse.
“Even if the [UST] peg were to eventually restore after the last marginal buyers and sellers have capitulated, the holders of Luna have so severely been liquidated and diluted that we will lack the ecosystem to build back up from the ashes,” Kwon wrote.
He continued, “UST holders need to own a large share of the network, as the network’s debt holders they deserve to be compensated for the tokens they have been holding to the end.”
This is a developing story. Check back for updates."
102,72,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/13/luna-ust-still-available-on-ftx-and-other-exchanges-despite-terra-blockchain-halt/,"LUNA, UST Still Available on FTX and Other Exchanges Despite Terra Blockchain Halt",Transactions conducted during the blockchain halt are not considered to be final because they can’t be settled.,2022-05-13,"Despite a second halt of the Terra blockchain by its validators, the protocol’s LUNA token and UST algorithmic stablecoin remain available to trade on FTX and other minor exchanges as of late morning Asia time.
FTX and China-focused exchange Gate.io continue to trade the luna token.
Between its USD and USDT trading pairs, FTX has nearly $445 million in volume during the last 24 hours, according to CoinGecko.
Meanwhile, Gate.io reports $84 million in volume during the last 24-hours for luna.
Thai-based exchange Bitazza was trading both luna and UST up until early Friday morning Asia time, then pulled the plug on both.
UST continues to be traded at FTX and KuCoin, with $678 million in volume during the last 24 hours at FTX and $248 million at KuCoin.
Binance and many other major exchanges halted trading of LUNA and UST as both neared $0 and the Terra blockchain was shut down the first time.
It’s unclear if the Terra blockchain will ever be restarted, meaning that the trades may never be settled and traders unable to cash out.
UPDATE (May 13, 17:06 UTC ): According to a tweet from Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao, deposits, withdrawals and trading of the tokens has resumed on that company's platform."
103,90,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/luna-exchange-traded-product-issuances-halted-after-price-shellacking/,LUNA Exchange-Traded Product Issuances Halted After Price Shellacking,The decisions by three issuers come after the collapse of algorithmic stablecoin UST along with the LUNA ecosystem.,2022-05-13,"Three different exchange-traded product (ETP) issuers announced they will suspend trading and issuing shares in LUNA-related investment vehicles after the cryptocurrency lost almost all of its value over the course of a week.
VanEck, Valour and 21Shares, all of which offer luna ETPs in Europe, suspended issuing shares, citing the network’s recent issues, which include two complete shutdowns of the purportedly decentralized network. All three products lost close to 100% this week.
VanEck alerted investors Friday that it will be temporarily suspending creations and redemptions of shares in its VanEck Terra ETN (exchange-traded-note), which trades in several European nations. The firm pointed to the “loss of most of its value and the halt of the Terra network.”
VanEck added that it is “unable to conduct transactions in Luna through the Terra network. Therefore, it is technically not possible to accept creations and redemption for VanEck Terra ETN.”
Likewise, Valour said it is halting trading of its Valour Terra (LUNA) SEK product, which trades on the Nordic Growth Market in Scandinavia. The firm cited “high volatility and the prevailing uncertainty around the Terra ecosystem.”
Valour also said that it seeks to “provide a market, through the market maker, as soon as it is possible and allowed.” Valour is a unit of Canadian-listed DeFi Technologies.
Meanwhile, a spokesperson for Swiss-based 21Shares told CoinDesk that given the LUNA network “operating intermittently and inconsistently, 21Shares is unable to provide creation and redemption operations and is suspending the quotation of the Terra ETP. We will continue to closely monitor this fast evolving situation on the underlying.”
21Shared warned investors on Thursday that “if the price of LUNA drops to zero, that will be reflected in the indexed products and the value of the tracker fund will also fall to zero. As LUNA experiences low prices and high volatility, it is likely that exchange spreads will continue to widen, which may ultimately lead to delisting on the part of the exchanges.”
Read more: LUNA, UST Still Available on FTX and Other Exchanges Despite Terra Blockchain Halt"
104,92,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/13/terra-validators-halt-blockchain-for-second-time-to-plot-next-steps/,Terra Validators Halt Blockchain for Second Time to Plot Next Steps,The blockchain was halted earlier Thursday after the governance token LUNA fell in price.,2022-05-13,"Terra validators pulled the plug (at least temporarily) on their embattled network late Thursday New York time, Terra’s official Twitter account tweeted, as they searched for answers to a crisis that’s demolished UST and LUNA prices, on-chain stability and billions of dollars in wealth.
“The Terra blockchain has officially halted at block 7607789. Terra Validators have halted the network to come up with a plan to reconstitute it,” the tweet said.
The project’s Discord community was despondent in response.
“Whatever they do, they need to bring in the A team, people from the big leagues that know what the f*ck to do in a crisis,” said Kenboi_Ninja in the #general chat (where users have been restricted to one post per hour). “We need Sean Connery from The Rock level nerves and determination rn. Anything is possible in the space with the right people, good ideas and capital. Make it happen Terra. See ya in an hour.”
LUNA was priced at around $0.008 at the time the network was halted. UST was at $0.19."
105,120,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/14/what-happened-to-the-35b-terra-reserve/,What Happened to the $3.5B Terra Reserve?,Blockchain analytics firm Elliptic follows the money to major exchanges Gemini and Binance.,2022-05-14,"Where’d that $3.5 billion go?
Unless you’ve been off the grid for the last couple weeks, you likely already know the $3.5 billion bitcoin (BTC) reserve that was amassed, in part, to defend and support the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin, which proved to be anything but. However, while it’s clear that untold billions in value and wealth were lost when those reserves proved inadequate to prevent a depegging, what no one knows is what happened to those reserves and where they are now.
Terra Labs CEO Do Kwon has said via Twitter that documentation regarding the use of the reserves during the depegging event would be forthcoming. Where the bitcoin is held and how it was used will be vital for investors seeking to recoup losses suffered through their exposure to UST, according to Tom Robinson, co-founder and chief scientist of Elliptic, a blockchain analytics firm.
While it’s uncertain when Terra will release that documentation, Robinson said his firm has been following the money: some 80,394 BTC, worth $3.5 billion when purchased by the Luna Foundation Guard, the non-profit organization set up to promote the growth of the Terra ecosystem, between January and May this year.
When the value of UST began to drop at the start of last week, LFG announced it would begin to dispose of its bitcoin reserves and purchase UST. On the morning of May 9, LFG announced that it would “Loan $750M worth of BTC to OTC trading firms to help protect the UST peg.” Terra creator Do Kwon later clarified that the bitcoin would be “used to trade.”
At around the same time, 22,189 BTC (worth ~$750 million at this time) was sent from a bitcoin address linked to LFG, to a new address, Elliptic pointed out in a blog post. Later that evening a further 30,000 BTC (worth ~$930 million at the time) was sent from other LFG wallets, to this same address.
Within hours, the entirety of this 52,189 BTC was moved to a single account at U.S. crypto exchange Gemini, via several bitcoin transactions, according to Elliptic.
The purpose of having a very large reserve of bitcoin was potentially to purchase UST to push the price back up toward $1, which is probably the reason it was sent to exchanges. However, it’s not possible using the blockchain alone to identify whether it was sold to support the UST price, Elliptic’s Robinson said.
This left 28,205 BTC in Terra’s reserves. At 1 a.m. UTC on May 10, those remaining reserves were moved in their entirety, in a single transaction, to an account at the cryptocurrency exchange Binance. Again, it is not possible to identify whether these assets were sold or subsequently moved to other wallets, Robinson said.
“All we can see is it going into these exchanges,” Robinson told CoinDesk. “We can’t really see how it’s been used. It might have been sold, it might be being stored on the exchanges, it might have been withdrawn again and might be an unhosted wallet.”
UPDATE (May 16, 21:20 UTC): Edits second paragraph for clarity."
106,97,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/14/justin-sun-talks-usdd-stablecoin-in-wake-of-lunaust-unravel/,Justin Sun Talks USDD Stablecoin in Wake of LUNA/UST Unravel,Subtitle not found,2022-05-14,"Justin Sun didn't anticipate Terra’s $19 billion UST stablecoin would unravel less than one week after his own algorithmic stablecoin, USDD, launched.
In late April, Sun announced the blockchain he founded, Tron, would be creating its own algorithmic stablecoin, USDD. The controversial project drew criticism for its likeness to the Terra stablecoin UST, which, until this past week, was the largest decentralized stablecoin by market capitalization.
In a Lehman Brothers-like moment for crypto markets, UST lost its peg to the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, catalyzing a painful death spiral that all but wiped out the $30 billion Terra ecosystem, including its once-white-hot LUNA token. A wave of extreme fear among traders led to steep declines across all cryptocurrencies, and the contagion appears to have briefly spread to other stablecoins, including Tether’s USDT and the Waves blockchain ecosystem's neutrino USD, or USDN.
But Sun is an optimist. “I still believe in algorithmic stablecoins,” he told CoinDesk in a Zoom interview, which was scheduled before any of the market turmoil surfaced.
According to its white paper, Sun’s stablecoin would maintain its peg by a minting/burn process that would convert one USDD to $1 worth of TRX, the native token of the Tron blockchain. Conversely, $1 worth of TRX could be burned to mint one USDD.
As of Saturday morning, the market cap of USDD reached $270 million, according to data from CoinMarketCap. That's a fraction of the market cap of UST prior to last week's collapse and for now represents little threat to the asset-backed stablecoins USDT ($77 billion) and USDC ($51 billion), nor to the now-leading decentralized-finance stablecoin, DAI ($6.4 billion).
Currently, the yields for staking Tron’s USDD are as high as 40%, about double the 20% yield offered by Terra’s Anchor Protocol.
Despite UST’s unraveling this past week, Sun is confident Tron’s USDD will ultimately prove successful.
The controversial crypto entrepreneur (and ambassador of Grenada to the World Trade Organization) spoke with CoinDesk about how USDD will differ from UST, the $10 billion Tron decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) treasury he’s planning to build, the crypto bear market and whether he’s in any way responsible for triggering the Terra meltdown (as some #cryptotwitterati have suggested).
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
How did you get the idea to launch this decentralized stablecoin? Many critics are calling it a copy of LUNA/UST.
First, I want to talk a little bit about algorithmic stablecoins. I think they are very important to our industry. Today’s stablecoins are very centralized. It’s all collateralized, which means they all need a bank, and real bank services. We call crypto a decentralized world, but today, stablecoins are the most centralized part. We wanted to design an algorithm to make sure stablecoins can basically stay decentralized.
I think the failure of LUNA was not because algorithmic stablecoins are not viable or are not doable. LUNA’s failure mainly depended on too much leverage. They grew to a dramatic market cap in a very short period of time.
When we designed USDD, we focused on the healthy growth of USDD. We want to keep our USDD market cap relatively small compared to TRX and total market cap. And also at the same time, smaller than the Tron DAO Reserve.
How do you plan on building up the $10 billion reserve fund?
We acquired BTC, USDT, USDC, TUSD and other stablecoins.
Is it kind of ironic that you have a bunch of centralized stablecoins in the treasury collateralizing this decentralized stablecoin?
We want two safety nets. The first is the algorithm. The stablecoin is primarily backed by the algorithm itself. It basically runs in a decentralized way. But you know, consider the current market volatility right now. ... That's why we need a decentralized reserve to try to use the money we have to stabilize the market.
Do you plan on buying a diversified basket of crypto assets like the Luna Foundation Guard's strategy? If so, what assets are you eyeing?
We haven't finalized the list but I think the main two we are buying right now are BTC and TRX. But we will consider other stablecoins and tokens in the future.
What’s the planned breakdown of the $10 billion treasury?
I think half will be in stablecoins. Mainly USDT and USDC, around $2 billion each. We also hold other stablecoins, like BUSD, DAI and TUSD – altogether around one $1 billion. The rest mainly is bitcoin [BTC] plus TRX.
Do you know the breakdown between bitcoin and TRX?
I think bitcoin occupies like 80% of that.
Looking at the USDD chart [Thursday morning], you definitely see some more volatility. Do you have any thoughts on what caused that particular volatility?
We consider 5% to be the range of a depeg, so until then we will run with the volatility. Recently, luna has caused a panic now not only on the algorithm stablecoin, but also in centralized stablecoins. So we have seen the tether price go up and down. Today I'm looking very closely at the market volatility and we have market makers and also liquidity providers to keep the price stable.
What's your plan in case USDD depegs, like what happened with UST?
I think the LUNA problem is still that they used too much leverage. That’s why when the market collapses, the money they have in their reserve is just not enough to recover. We all witnessed the market panic.
[The Luna Foundation Guard] needs at least $10 billion to rescue the market and prevent the depeg from happening. That’s why leverage is dangerous. When we use leverage, we need to always be aware of how much is in our reserve. But it’s not only how much money you have, it’s also about how quickly you can provide the liquidity.
So that’s why our reserve has different layers. We have stablecoins, which can be deployed immediately if anything bad happens, and then it can win time, and then we can gradually liquidate other assets if we need to. LUNA grew too fast, and they didn’t have time to build a good reserve fund to stabilize the market.
If you remember, when the attack happened, people withdrew the 3pools from Curve, and they started to build up the 4pool. But between these times, the market liquidity was very weak. That's why when we provide liquidity to the market, we need to be super careful about this kind of liquidity squeeze as well. I still believe in algorithmic stablecoins. If we handle it well, it certainly can provide a good decentralized alternative.
On the UST depeg, there have been rumors circulating about whether or not it was an intentional, coordinated attack on the peg. Some even mentioned you as one potential attacker, do you have any comment on that?
I think the LUNA situation was mainly caused by market panic rather than by an organized attack. But we did see a lot of people withdraw liquidity at a very sensitive time. I wish the LUNA team would prepare for [liquidity shifts] way more carefully.
If you want to manage algorithm stablecoin liquidity, I will basically advise you to make changes in a good, healthy market. I think the [U.S.] Federal Reserve had [its] meeting one day before LUNA moved their liquidity, right? Those times are super sensitive, you don't want to do anything to mess up the liquidity at that time. So I think there's lots of details, you need to pay attention if you are doing an algorithmic stablecoin.
Just to clarify, you don't think that this was an organized attack? And you yourself are not behind it?
[laughs] No, it was not me.
What do you think the Terra team did right, and what do you think they did badly, that you would not do?
At the end of the day, the Terra team opened the algorithm stablecoin era. This is the first time algorithmic stablecoins have grown past $10 billion in market cap. Also, they managed to get lots of very prestigious institutions and capital on board to build this product. Terra inspired a lot of the innovative [decentralized finance] products in the industry.
In terms of what they did wrong, first, they grew to a very large market cap in a super short period of time. If the market cap were less than $5 billion they wouldn’t have failed like this. It will be so much easier to recover the peg. That’s the first thing, I think they basically grew too quickly.
The second mistake, similar to the first, is because they grew in a very short period of time they had no time to consider all the different variables in these very complicated markets. First of all, the liquidity – like when you should move the liquidity pool, how much money you need to put in the pool, how to build the Luna Foundation Guard funds. There’s lots they need to plan beforehand, but because they grew in a very short period of time, I don’t think it was possible for them to consider everything.
The third thing, LUNA had a problem when they set the interest rate of Anchor [the decentralized money market protocol built on the Terra blockchain]. I think yesterday they had to cut it from 20% to 4%. They should have done that a long time ago. Once you grow to a certain market cap, it is time to cut the interest rate a little.
I also think we need to focus on real use cases rather than leverage. We need lots of people to use the stablecoin in their daily life, which also takes time.
With Tron, you are advertising a 30% risk-free yield, which is even higher than Anchor’s. I just heard you criticize Anchor’s unsustainable yield. Why are you setting an even higher yield?
It’s basically a marketing strategy, right? You get everybody involved to participate in the growth of the stablecoin. I think the yield should depend on the growth of the product.
When people first start their companies they spend a lot of time on promoting, marketing their brand. But after they have an established brand and a very loyal customer group, they will start to reconsider their branding strategy.
If you get involved as an early bird you can get more returns. I think this is totally reasonable. But after a year why keep the same strategy you’re doing when you are very small? I think this strategy needs to be dynamic rather than be a fixed yield.
Right, so the 30% can be an intro offer. When do you plan on cutting it?
First of all, the return should depend on the time someone contributes the liquidity in the first place. The problem with Anchor is people can pull money out of the pool immediately, which is also very dangerous. When market panic is happening, all the people are going to want their money at once.
For example, we can have a 10% yield for you if you want to pull money out anytime. If you can lock up for six months, you can get 15%, and if you want to lock money away for a year, you can get 20%. Basically, I think these kinds of yield structures should depend on time.
We still need to design a better structure on how to incentivize the community and how to incentivize the liquidity provider.
It sounds like what you just mentioned with these incentive structures is not an algorithmic stablecoin-specific problem. These issues surrounding incentivizes and tokenomics are problems with crypto projects in general.
Exactly.
Right now, there is a lot of hesitation around algorithmic stablecoins. A lot of people think that the mechanism is doomed to fail. They say, ‘We just don't believe in the concept.’ What would you say to those people?
I fully have confidence in stablecoins. When I first got to the industry, we had the Mt Gox hack, and a lot of people lost their life savings. Then lots of people didn’t believe in crypto exchanges anymore. At that time, I remember people saying, “I don’t trust any crypto exchange anymore. I will only use bitcoin in my wallet, and if I want to sell to anyone, I will go to localbitcoin.com.”
That’s why we need to be super cautious and view this kind of operation like a crypto exchange. It’s very hard. You need to be super cautious with client money and win client trust, and it’s very easy to fail. In the past 10 years of bitcoin’s history, numerous exchanges got hacked, and loads of them went bankrupt because of the hack. That’s why we need to do things super carefully.
The crypto industry is going to evolve and algorithmic stablecoins have got to be there, because I think this is a very important component of our ecosystem in the first place. We can’t blame the algorithm just because LUNA failed, just like we can’t blame the crypto exchange. I think we just need more sophisticated and well-planned structures. Thinking about things like leverage, growth and also having a dedicated team to carefully manage it.
So you don't think that there’s a fundamental flaw in the design of these stablecoins and you think Terra/LUNA failed due to more operational issues?
Yes. It can be prevented if you do things in a more careful way. For example, no bank in the world can survive if all their customers come to them on the same day and ask them to pay their money back. Every bank also needs very sophisticated management, right? That’s why I think this is more about managing well. We see lots of banks go bankrupt but some survive.
Also, we see these financial crises that happen, like in 2008. I think these kinds of death spirals are very common in the whole financial industry. It’s an expensive lesson. But we can’t just abandon the financial industry because of these kinds of crises.
What are your thoughts on if this will start a new crypto winter? What would it mean for the industry in the near term?
Right now, it's the lower-bound support because people are over-panicking, especially today. At one moment on Binance, there was a person that wanted to sell four Tether for one USDC. That’s how much people are panicking.
People are even giving up on USDT, which is a stablecoin. If you're talking about the mood of the market right now, it’s extreme fear. I saw this back in 2019. In market crash times, people start the tether FUD.
Do you have any thoughts on the price of bitcoin? Will it go under $20K?
If bitcoin can ever go down to $20K, I’m all in. That's the first thing. The second is, I think right now, at least in the near term, it's the bottom. We can't predict the future but I think definitely right now is a good time to buy."
107,103,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/14/satoshis-mission-luna-ust-and-where-crypto-went-wrong/,"Satoshi's Mission, LUNA, UST and Where Crypto Went Wrong","In 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto encoded a mission statement for the industry in Bitcoin's first block. Essentially, crypto should first do no harm.",2022-05-14,"""But they, our ancestors, became arrogant and stiff-necked, and they did not obey your commands. They refused to listen and failed to remember the miracles you performed among them. They became stiff-necked and in their rebellion appointed a leader in order to return to their slavery.” (Nehemiah 9:16-21)
Bitcoin’s genesis block is historic, not just because it contained the first 50 bitcoins, but because it had a message coded in the hash code: ""The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks.""
Nathan Thompson is the lead technical writer at Bybit.
This reference to the 2008 financial crisis from Bitcoin’s creator, the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, is often read as an indirect mission statement: The financial system could be redesigned, money could obey immutable laws written into code, and finance could flow unimpeded. Bitcoin would be decentralized, beyond reproach and beyond manipulation.
However, it seems that the crypto industry, rather than recreate a trustless and egalitarian digital economy, has been dogged by in-fighting. We have recreated a techno version of the Old System, where greed for yield led people into convoluted and dangerous profit-maximizing strategies.
That is, without the benefits of power.
The meltdown of TerraUSD (UST) – which was once the third-largest stablecoin by market capitalization, which was once famous for offering a 20% annual percentage yield on deposits in the Anchor protocol and which was once going to make a lot of people very rich – appears to be total. This time there are no taxpayer bailouts.
See also: Do Kwon's Proposed Terra 'Revival' Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge
Terra’s collapse, coupled with a consumer price index of 8.3%, has led to selling across the crypto markets. Bitcoin buckled and is now below $30,000, with alternative coins faring no better as investors either sold into BTC or exited into cash.
Due to its algorithmic design, UST has a price that moves in sync with the price of Terra’s native cryptocurrency LUNA. The bank run that disentangled UST’s peg to the U.S. dollar also collapsed LUNA’s price, which crashed over 99% in two days to less than a cent. Earlier this year, UST and LUNA had a combined market cap of $60 billion, and now it’s under $7 billion.
The fallout has just started. There are yield aggregators that use UST as collateral and God knows what other complex financial strategies built on top of UST that are now at risk. People have lost their life savings; there are tears and depression.
Do Kwon, the braggadocious CEO of Terraform Labs, last year made CoinDesk’s Top 10 Most Influential list. Like other brilliant tech entrepreneurs, he had the status of a cult hero – people thought UST was one of the most brilliantly designed financial products, because it was successful.
It’s still unfolding how or why UST collapsed. But Kwon made powerful enemies with a plan, unveiled earlier this year, to make UST one of the premier stablecoins in the world by draining liquidity from rival projects on the decentralized finance tool Curve Finance. He exacerbated things by throwing his weight around on Twitter.
Indeed, Kwon took a multimillion-dollar bet on the price of LUNA, said rival stablecoin DAI would “die by my hand” and called a critic a slur for someone with diminished mental capabilities for pointing out vulnerabilities in UST’s design.
It's not surprising, then, that blockchain analysts are already finding evidence that UST’s meltdown was caused in some part by sabotage. It seems an unknown actor dumped $84 million of UST exactly one minute after Terraform Labs had withdrawn capital to fund its new “4pool” on Curve. That helped cause UST to deviate from its peg, which started the avalanche of panic selling and liquidations.
Today, Kwon and his team are scrambling to find a solution. Many believe it is beyond saving, especially as traders will long and short UST the whole way back to dollar parity – if it ever gets there.
See also: UST’s Bitcoin Reserve Too Late in Coming to Save Dollar Peg
Kwon reminds me of another crypto folk hero, Daniele Sestagalli, the founder of Wonderland Money and a celebrated crypto developer. A series of liquidations plus revelations that his business partner was a convicted criminal led to a complete loss of faith in his projects. Sestagalli has yet to make a comeback.
The industry would do well to remember Satoshi’s founding message: Crypto is supposed to make things better. It’s supposed to offer people a way to save and grow their capital without having to trust third-party actors who have failed time and time again – like Do Kwon.
I’m not naive enough to think that the lessons learned from today will lead to a kumbaya situation where the proverbial lions lie down with the lambs. However, we are seeing strength from bitcoin and the faith that it and other quality assets will withstand this pressure and that as long as they do, Satoshi’s dream will live on."
108,184,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/15/first-mover-asia-singapores-regulators-will-be-eyeing-local-crypto-companies-after-terra-collapse-bitcoin-rebounds/,First Mover Asia: Singapore’s Regulators Will Be Eyeing Local Crypto Companies After Terra Collapse; Bitcoin Rebounds,"Terraform Labs, the Singapore-registered company behind the Terra protocol, doesn’t have a permanent office in the city-state; most major cryptos spent Sunday in the green.",2022-05-15,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin mounts a small Sunday comeback.
Insights: Crypto companies may face more scrutiny in Singapore.
Technician's take: BTC is on track for its first consecutive seven-week decline.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,122 +3.5%
Ether (ETH): $2,139 +4.5%
Bitcoin rebounds
As comebacks go, it wasn't much. But Bitcoin will take what it can get at this point.
So will other cryptos hammered last week by the toxic mix of geopolitical unrest, rising interest rates, recessionary fears and the implosion of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the LUNA token that backs it.
Bitcoin was recently trading above $31,000, up about 3.5% over the past 24 hours and roughly 16% from the $26,600 depths it sank to mid-Friday. ""Bitcoin did indeed face downward pressure that saw it losing the $30K support, but it did not fall below the 25K level,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, wrote to CoinDesk.
Ether, the second largest crypto by market cap, was recently up similarly and changing hands at about $2,100 after earlier in the week dropping below $1,800 for the first time in two months. Most major altcoins spent Sunday well in the green, recovering some of the ground they lost last week as the crypto market cap tumbled by $300 billion. SOL rose more than 10% at one point, although its $55 price was down from over $70 at the start of the week.
ADA, AVAX and AXS posted increases ranging between 9% and 11%. BCH was among the few losers earlier Sunday.
Crypto gains dovetailed with equity markets that finally enjoyed some good news Friday after six straight days of declines. The tech-focused Nasdaq closed up 3.8%, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial average rose 2.3% and 1.4%, respectively. Still, the week's economic bad news is unlikely to shake investors from their risk-averse positions of recent months.
On Wednesday, the U.S. Commerce Department announced that consumer prices had risen 8.3% in April, slightly better than the previous month but nevertheless a sign that inflation driving a range of goods and services would linger. Even the once torrid housing market has felt shockwaves as mortgage rates have risen over 5.3%, increasing the difficulty for would-be homeowners to finance their purchases. Investors have been concerned that U.S. central bank hawkishness was inadequate to tame rising prices without throwing the economy into recession.
In an email Friday, Hargreaves Lansdown Senior Investment and Markets Analyst Susannah Streeter highlighted ""investor worries over inflation, supply concerns and the UST fall, which sent LUNA tumbling to a fraction of a cent. ""For now the crypto wild west is taking a breather after reeling from the crash brought on by the collapse of a so-called stablecoin,"" Streeter wrote, adding: ""This latest plunge in the wheel of fortune demonstrates that speculating in cryptocurrencies is extremely high risk and is not suitable for investors who don’t have money they can afford to lose.’’
BitBull's DiPasquale noted that ""a near-term bounce"" in Bitcoin ""is still intact but a proper reversal needs more buying activity."" He called last week's low ""a decent buying opportunity for long-term exposure,"" but also warned that ""the coming month may bring additional volatility as more concrete steps by the FED to fight inflation come to the fore.""
S&P 500: 4,023 +2.3%
DJIA: 32,196 +1.4%
Nasdaq: 11,805 +3.8%
Gold: $1,811 -0.5%
Singapore will be eyeing locally registered crypto firms
As the week closed in Asia, LUNA and UST were de-listed from most exchanges as the Terra blockchain was halted for nine hours, restarted and then halted again as the market seemed to reject a recovery plan.
The question on many people’s minds is, how will token holders be made whole? That’s where things get complicated.
Terraform Labs, the Singapore-registered company behind the Terra protocol, doesn’t have a permanent office. The Singapore address it provides is a registration agent, home to hundreds of Singaporean companies. Its offices are rented co-working spaces worldwide; like many Web 3 startups, there’s no formal headquarters.
The only assets the company has are from the Luna Foundation Guard. This non-profit organization, also registered in Singapore and overseen by Do Kwon, controls the wallets that were to support the UST peg during times of extreme volatility. The majority of these wallets are now empty, with the only thing of value remaining being the approximately $69 million in avalanche token (AVAX).
Singapore’s regulators are aware of the trend of crypto companies using a Singaporean entity to conduct business abroad with no material ties to the country. In April, its Parliament passed a bill into law that included provisions that require domestically registered crypto companies that do business abroad to be licensed primarily for anti-money laundering reasons, but leaves the door open in the future for this to expand.
As the year began, Terra’s LUNA token had a market cap of $33 billion. Its UST stablecoin had a market cap of $10 billion. Now, both have a virtual value of $0.
Should there be a legal case made against the companies behind the protocol by the token holders, what sort of assets could be seized? What jurisdiction does the Singapore government have over Do Kwon and co-founder Daniel Shin? On company filings with local authorities, both provide addresses in Singapore but it's unclear if they reside there full time, as Kwon maintains a residence in South Korea, too.
With its lawsuit against the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Terraform Labs and Do Kwon asserted that American regulators don’t have jurisdiction over Kwon, a Korean residing in Singapore. They have no ties to the U.S., so how can they be targeted by regulators? they argued. But they might find themselves dealing with Singapore’s justice system, and while the country has a favorable securities framework compared to the U.S. its courts are known to be otherwise strict.
Should the Singaporean government feel like the nation’s reputation is at stake because of a registered company with few material ties that blew up tens of billions of dollars, it will come after them hard and may start the process of closing the door entirely on crypto firms that use a Singaporean shell but do business abroad.
If that happens, will Terraform and Kwon also claim the “no jurisdiction” route?
Bitcoin Oversold, Resistance at $33K-$35K
Bitcoin (BTC) bounced toward $30,000 on Friday as buyers reacted to oversold conditions. Still, any upside appears to be limited, and the cryptocurrency could face resistance at $33,000 and $35,000.
Momentum signals remain negative on the daily, weekly and monthly charts, which typically leads to a period of low or negative returns. Further, BTC is on track for its first-ever consecutive seven-week decline, according to Coinbase (COIN) price data provided by TradingView, dating back to 2014. That's also a sign of negative price momentum.
For now, BTC is approaching lower support near its 200-week moving average, which is now at $21,800. Immediate support is between $27,000 and $30,000, which could stabilize price action over the next few days.
Also, on Thursday, short-term countertrend signals appeared on the charts, which typically leads to a brief price bounce.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the weekly chart is the most oversold since March 2020, although strong resistance and negative momentum suggests limited upside over the next few months.
Stronghold Digital first quarter earnings
Mawson first quarter earnings
Cosmos Gateway Conference
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Panic Eases, Bitcoin, Many Cryptos Seeing Green, Lessons Learned From UST Shock
""First Mover"" dove further into the UST stablecoin debacle and its punishing impact on crypto markets. BTC, other crypto prices were climbing but the outlook is uncertain. And what were the lessons learned? Joining host Christine Lee were Michael Coscetta of Paxos, which has a different kind of stablecoin than UST, and Benoit Bosc of GSR gave his markets analysis.
Do Kwon’s Proposed Terra ‘Revival’ Puts UST, LUNA Holders in Charge: A “Revival Plan” submitted Friday by the Terraform Labs CEO would redistribute ownership of the network.
Terra Validators Halt Blockchain for Second Time to Plot Next Steps: The blockchain was halted earlier Thursday after the governance token LUNA fell in price.
Coinbase, MicroStrategy and Other Crypto Stocks Finally See Some Relief After Recent Losses: Shares of many crypto-related stocks had been battered during the week.
Elon Musk Says He's Committed to Twitter Deal After Putting It on Hold: The landmark deal that would see Elon Musk take over Twitter and make it private has hit a stumbling block as Musk wants to verify the amount of fake accounts.
Crypto-Related Stocks in Asia See Volatile Trading Amid Bitcoin Recovery: Traditional market investors risked-off publicly traded companies related to the crypto sector amid a drop in prices this week.
Why the Fed Will Go Back to Easy Money: Amid a recession and political paralysis, the Federal Reserve will have no choice but to revert to quantitative easing. What will that mean for cryptos like bitcoin?
Today's crypto explainer: Bitcoin Mining Difficulty: Everything You Need to Know
Other voices: Why is crypto crashing? Analysts list the key reasons behind this week’s implosion (Fortune)
""It's a sobering moment for those of us in the crypto watching business. I’ve spent a great deal of time over the last two years trying to highlight absurdities in the bubbly crypto market (including predicting luna’s failure), but I still find myself somewhat shocked by just how exposed civilians became to one of the most experimental projects in the industry. And to be explicit, the crypto industry is still best thought of as entirely experimental."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""The downfall of UST as an algorithmic stablecoin is a Black Swan event and should never have happened. It was a project worth over $18 billion – practically too big to fail. Stronger regulatory controls overseeing the project’s automated trading system could have mitigated the situation a long time ago."" (Fluid CEO Ahmed Ismail, for CoinDesk) ... “It’s hard to say, ‘Is this Lehman Brothers?’ We’re going to need some more time to figure it out. You can’t respond at this type of speed.” (Paxos co-founder Charles Cascarilla, quoted in The New York Times) ... Saudi Aramco has posted its highest profits since its 2019 listing as oil and gas prices surge around the world....In a press release, the firm said it had been boosted by higher prices, as well as an increase in production. The invasion of Ukraine has seen oil and gas prices skyrocket. Russia is one of the world's biggest exporters but Western nations have pledged to cut their dependence on the country for energy. Oil prices were already rising before the Ukraine war as economies started to recover from the Covid pandemic and demand outstripped supply. Other energy firms including Shell, BP and TotalEnergies have also reported soaring profits as a result, although many are incurring costs exiting operations in Russia."" (BBC)
CLARIFICATION (May 15, 2022, 1:49 UTC): The Terra network was halted twice."
109,100,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/15/the-collapse-of-terra-was-devastating-but-there-is-still-hope-for-crypto/,"The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto","When a prominent stablecoin and the token that backs it failed, the broader ecosystem certainly was dealt a blow, but ultimately it is surviving.",2022-05-15,"First, I want to highlight that a lot of regular, hardworking people lost money because of the crypto market crash over the last week or so. Some people lost all of their money. While money isn’t everything, losing a lot of it sure does feel like it. If you or someone you know lost money in the LUNA/UST crash, know that life is always worth living.
If you somehow don’t already know, terraUSD (UST), a cryptocurrency that is supposed to stay at $1 (aka a stablecoin), is no longer $1. When something is supposed to be $1 and it’s not, that’s usually not good. What’s more, the crypto token that backs UST, LUNA, also lost virtually all of its value. These losses have been widely reported on, and so in all likelihood, this is the umpteen-millionth piece about UST you’ve seen.
But it has to be done because readers will remember me gushing over the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) – the nonprofit aimed at promoting and stabilizing the Terra ecosystem (which issues UST and LUNA) – announcing it would buy $10 billion of bitcoin to back UST. In fairness to me, I was mostly excited that I was able to write about something that Hal Finney published to the famed Bitcoin Talk forum. But in fairness to … the truth, I was not not excited about the possibility of a bitcoin-backed stablecoin.
All said, I’m going to pack as much as I can into this column about Terra without being overwhelming or unoriginal.
Here goes …
– George Kaloudis
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
There are these things in crypto called stablecoins. Stablecoins are supposed to be $1. Usually. Sometimes they are 1 euro or 1 won, but usually not. Blame U.S. dollar hegemony. Stablecoins exist so that crypto-natives can get in and out of the dollar easily without needing a bank to approve deposits and withdrawals. Stablecoins facilitate most crypto trading volume and power the never-ending crypto carousel that is “DeFi” (decentralized finance). More importantly, stablecoins are used by citizens subject to totalitarian governments spurring on hyperinflation.
There are a few flavors of stablecoins out there, notably tether (USDT), USD coin (USDC), binance USD (BUSD) and dai (DAI). Also quite notably, we had terraUSD (UST). These are the five largest stablecoins and they represent roughly $160 billion of value. Three of these stablecoins (USDT, USDC, BUSD) are collateralized stablecoins issued by centralized entities. These entities own a treasury of dollars that back each coin so that each coin can be redeemed for $1 by the holder from the issuer.
DAI is different in that it is collateralized and backed by a diversified portfolio of crypto assets. Instead of being issued by a centralized entity, a decentralized autonomous organization (or “DAO”) called MakerDAO manages DAI. DAI is collateralized with crypto rather than dollars, but it is, and this is critical, overcollateralized.
UST is even more different. It’s not collateralized at all. It is an algorithmic stablecoin powered by the Terra protocol. Instead, it is backed by a crypto token called LUNA. I covered how this works in a previous newsletter writing:
This is pretty clever on the surface. It’s simple. If the demand for UST is high enough to increase its price to $1.01, the protocol prints some UST in exchange for getting rid of some LUNA. The problem is that it works perfectly until it doesn’t. And boy did it stop working last Monday …
That’s supposed to be $1, not 11 cents. The LUNA chart somehow looks worse.
OK, naturally, you’re thinking that the mechanism broke or something. It didn’t break. It worked as designed and you can see that if you look at the amount of LUNA that has been issued as the protocol tried to algorithmically bring UST back to $1 while LUNA’s price was also tanking.
That’s right. The total supply of LUNA went from about 725 million tokens on May 5 to about 7 trillion on May 13. Meanwhile, LUNA lost 99.9% of its value. This is what hyperinflation looks like.
As mentioned above, Terraform Labs (the company behind Terra) laid out a plan to buy $10 billion of bitcoin and other crypto assets through the LFG in order to act as a backstop in case something like this happened. The problem remained, though. UST wasn’t fully collateralized like the other stablecoins in the top 5. Before the collapse, UST’s market capitalization was $18 billion, way more than the nearly $4 billion the foundation had in reserve.
Our friends at crypto data provider Kaiko did a great job breaking down what exactly happened. The short of it is this: UST dipped below $1, and all attempts, both by the Terra protocol algorithm and by the lending out of LFG reserves to trading firms, couldn’t bring UST back to $1. Between UST and LUNA, over $40 billion of value was lost.
What exactly happened doesn’t really matter. What really matters is that when something bad happened, Terra couldn’t handle it. What really matters is that an undercollateralized, algorithmic stablecoin will fail no matter how long it succeeds.
The system failed. But if we’re honest, UST was a wild success up until the moment it wasn’t. History should serve as a lesson here, when we inevitably will see a successful UST copycat crop up in 2027 or whatever.
We also are incredibly lucky that UST and LUNA aren’t big or intertwined enough to cause mass hysteria across all markets. I honestly believe we were lucky this happened in 2022 and not in 2030. Bloomberg’s Matt Levine put it well:
Spot on. Even if you’re like me, a bitcoin maximalist praying for the day where we go back to just one cryptocurrency, you have to admit that we are going to see more crypto in more industries in the short to medium term. Except next time an undercollateralized, algorithmic stablecoin fails, it’s not going to be $40 billion of lost value. It might be $400 billion. That could be catastrophic. We should look to avoid that scenario at all costs.
On the bright side, somehow bitcoin didn’t completely collapse. Over 80,000 BTC from that almost $4 billion treasury was potentially sold (we can’t yet confirm if the bitcoin was actually sold, but it was sent to exchanges) during the mad dash to get UST back to $1. That caused a price reaction, sure, but then again, the broader crypto market sold off because bad things were happening to a big crypto project (LUNA was once the 10th most valuable cryptocurrency). Add on the tenuous macroeconomic environment and general risk-off sentiment in the market, and it feels almost impossible that bitcoin still boasts a market cap of over $500 billion.
I think we are numb to these large numbers given the unprecedented bull market of the last 13 years, and so this bears repeating. Bitcoin was a worthless, purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash created by an unknown person in 2009. No big company or government put marketing, research or legal dollars behind it, and yet it is now a serious macro asset that important politicians and financiers feel the need to comment on.
A serious macro asset that can take huge swathes of selling volume and still … not … go … away. Bitcoin is here to stay. So is crypto. As long as we learn from this, that can be a good thing.
But if history is any indication, we still need to ensure that overconfidence doesn’t get the best of “future us.”"
110,319,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/first-mover-asia-metaverse-etfs-are-underperforming-gaming-etfs-cryptos-return-to-the-red/,First Mover Asia: Metaverse ETFs Are Underperforming Gaming ETFs; Cryptos Return to the Red,"Public interest continues to grow about the metaverse, but not as much in metaverse ETFs. Does crypto belong in everything?",2022-05-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and most other cryptos return to the red.
Insights: Metaverse ETFs are struggling to keep pace with gaming ETFs.
Technician's take: BTC's upside appears limited despite short-term support.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,982 -3.4%
Ether (ETH): $2,030 -4.7%
Bitcoin and other cryptos falter
That didn't last long.
A day after bitcoin broke a week-long losing streak, the largest cryptocurrency by market cap and other major cryptos were in the red again on Monday.
Bitcoin was recently down over 3% over the previous 24 hours and has fallen seven consecutive weeks. Still, it spent much of the day near or above the psychologically important $30,000 level. ""As far as the last 24 hours, we've seen a consolidation from six to eight weeks of sell-off,"" 3iQ Digital Asset's Head of Research Mark Connors told CoinDesk.
Bitcoin and other cryptos' performances dovetailed with equity markets, which dropped slightly on Monday and have been tumbling since last fall as inflation and supply chain issues continued to surge and investors became more risk averse. The tech-heavy Nasdaq dropped more than a percentage point on Monday.
Such growing cautiousness fanned last week by the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST), and the luna token that supports it, rocked altcoins particularly hard over the past week. On Monday, AXS and AVAX were recently down 12% and 8%, respectively. SOL declined more than 6%.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, fell over 4.6%, although it held fast above $2,000.
""In equities, you've taken almost a year of returns off so [there was] a rapid resetting as the Fed hiked [interest rates] in the first week of May,"" Connors said. ""You've seen digital assets, bitcoin, ether and the rest of the altcoins fall. What's happened is there's been a stabilization. What people are assessing is whether the interest rate hike has been taken out. In our opinion, it hasn't.
Trading volume rose from the lower levels to which it hewed for the first few months of the year, a sign of a potential, and at least temporary upswing. But few analysts are predicting a more permanent departure from the the current bear market. The coming weeks may be particularly hard on stablecoins even as Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon released a “revival plan” to save the Terra network. Kwon proposed forking Terra into a new chain without UST.
Connors said that investors would likely see three to nine months of ""choppy markets,"" and that prices would likely drop, possibly with support in the $20,000 to $24,000 range. In this environment, he sees investors focusing more on Bitcoin and Ethereum. ""Bitcoin dominance should and will happen when markets sell off,"" Connors said. ""People go to quality, but it seems that Ethereium is now building up as a number two quality asset in the ecosystem.""
S&P 500: 4,008 -0.3%
DJIA: 32,223 +0.08%
Nasdaq: 11,662 -1.2%
Gold: $1,824 +0.6%
Metaverse ETFs are struggling to keep pace with gaming ETFs
Sometimes a fancy new investment vehicle, most recently the metaverse, doesn’t perform as well on the market as last year’s model.
Metaverse exchange-traded funds (ETF) arrived last year shortly after the term entered our lexicon and became a favorite of venture capitalists. Because the metaverse is simply a mashup of gaming and crypto, these metaverse ETFs look a lot like gaming or eSports ETFs (the two terms are synonymous), which launched a few years ago.
They look like them because the metaverse is an ambiguous term; the shared online experience that is envisioned in Neil Stephenson's science fiction novel ""Snow Crash"" already exists on many multiplayer gaming platforms. Metaverse tokens don’t yet have listed proxies, so metaverse ETFs compensate for that by putting in publicly listed crypto companies like Galaxy (GLX.TO) or Block (SQ), the former Square. And that’s where the problem starts.
That association with crypto means that METV, a metaverse ETF from Roundhill, is significantly underperforming ESPO, a gaming/eSports ETF from VanEck.
Gaming tech heavyweights, like GPU designer Nvidia (NVDS) or game engine developer Unity, are in both baskets and haven’t performed well on-year but the inclusion of the likes of Galaxy Digital – down over 60% year-to-date and planning a stock buyback – really sinks the metaverse ETF.
Of course, this metaverse ETF is outperforming the metaverse tokens themselves: The Sandbox’s eponymous token (SAND) is down nearly 77% and Decentraland’s MANA is at 68%, mainly because both have struggled to attract a player base that reflects their valuation.
There’s an irony here. The metaverse, which is a way to sell crypto-plus-gaming as a rebranded product, is doing better on the market than plain vanilla gaming itself.
Maybe crypto doesn’t belong in everything?
Bitcoin Struggles at $27K-$30K Support Zone; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) is stabilizing around the $30,000 price level after last week's sell-off. The cryptocurrency must remain above the $27,000-$30,000 support zone this week in order to generate a positive short-term momentum signal.
BTC was down by as much as 3% over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, which could keep buyers active at support. The RSI is also oversold on the weekly chart, although negative momentum could cap upside moves in price.
Immediate resistance is seen at $33,000 and $35,000, which is where a breakdown in price occurred earlier this month. That suggests a large number of sell orders could limit a relief rally over the next two weeks.
Further, the recent underperformance of alternative cryptos (altcoins) relative to bitcoin suggests a lower appetite for risk among crypto traders. Typically, alts decline by more than bitcoin during down markets because of their higher risk profile. The broader risk-off environment could keep BTC's short-term downtrend intact.
Cosmos Gateway Conference
Permissionless DeFi Conference
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia minutes
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. retail sales (MoM/April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
OKX Exec on UST and Luna Crash, Bitcoin Outlook After 7 Straight Weeks of Losses
As investors continued to digest the disastrous fall of Terra's luna (LUNA) and stablecoin UST, OKX Director of Financial Markets Lennix Lai joined ""First Mover"" to explain how it handled the crash and to share his thoughts on what may happen in the industry and markets next. Plus, Charles Allen of BTCS Inc. provided market analysis and Chen Arad of Solidus Labs examined the crypto crash.
Kwon Proposes Forking Terra, Nixing UST Stablecoin in ‘Revival Plan 2’: “$UST peg failure is Terra’s DAO hack moment,” the Terraform Labs CEO wrote, “a chance to rise up anew from the ashes.”
The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto: When a prominent stablecoin and the token that backs it failed, the broader ecosystem certainly was dealt a blow, but ultimately it is surviving.
LFG Reserves Dwindle to Just 313 Bitcoins From 80K After UST Crash: The announcement comes after criticism of the Luna Foundation Guard's ""lack of transparency.""
Indian Central Bank Says Cryptos Could Lead to ""Dollarization"" of Economy: Report: RBI officials said cryptocurrencies could undermine the central bank's capacity to regulate flow of money.
Japan’s Nomura Said to Launch Crypto Unit With DeFi and NFTs on Menu: Report:The Japanese investment bank carried out its first cryptocurrency derivatives trades last week.
Nigeria’s SEC Affirms All Digital Assets Are Securities in New Rulebook: Rules look to clarify crypto’s role in the economy by providing a regulatory framework.
Satoshi's Mission, LUNA, UST and Where Crypto Went Wrong: In 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto encoded a mission statement for the industry in Bitcoin's first block. Essentially, crypto should first do no harm.
Today's crypto explainer: Bitcoin Mining Difficulty: Everything You Need to Know
Other voices: A Crypto Emperor’s Vision: No Pants, His Rules
""China’s economy descended deeper into a COVID-19-induced doldrums last month, raising questions about whether Beijing’s planned stimulus measures can prevent a prolonged downturn."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Terraform Labs, the organization that built the system, supposedly deployed about $3 billion worth of bitcoin, paused the blockchain, flooded the market with UST’s sister token LUNA and tried to pay out arbitrageurs taking advantage of the volatile situation in an effort to rescue its network. Those expensive gambles failed, and even Do Kwon, UST’s principal architect, said the network as it once was can’t be salvaged. Terra is working on something of a repayment plan for “small” token holders. All of this raises two very important questions for the industry: Are all “algos,” or algorithmic stablecoins, dead on arrival? And should there be regulation in place to prevent a similar disaster?"" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... Soaring valuations and booming [initial public offerings] made startups seem like a safe bet, inspiring hundreds of new venture funds. Now, the party seems to be suddenly ending – and downsizing may signal even worse times ahead. Since January, nearly 50 startups have made significant layoffs, according to data collected by Layoffs.fyi. Among them are companies like Robinhood [HOOD] and Peloton [PTON], which after huge growth during the pandemic now face the realities of a less buoyant economy, and less cash on hand. Startups like Cameo have had to reverse the spending sprees of the last two years."" (Wired)"
111,322,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/fantom-stablecoin-dei-becomes-latest-to-lose-dollar-peg/,Fantom Stablecoin DEI Becomes Latest to Lose Dollar Peg,DEI lost as much as 46 cents in European hours this morning. It follows a trend of several algorithmic stablecoins losing their pegs.,2022-05-16,"Deus Finance's stablecoin dei (DEI) lost its peg with U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 54 cents in European hours on Monday, data shows. The drop came amid several algorithmic stablecoins losing their peg last week.
Algorithmic stablecoins are supposed to be automatically pegged to the price of another currency. These are unlike centralized alternatives like tether (USDT) or USD coin (USDC), which are backed by actual dollars or equivalent assets stored in a bank.
DEI, valued at over $62 million by market capitalization, operates within Deus, a Fantom-based decentralized finance (DeFi) project. It comprises 10% DEUS tokens and 90% in other stablecoins.
The collateral ratio of DEI is constantly monitored and adjusted via arbitrage bots, which continually trade $1 worth of the underlying tokens for 1 DEI, or vice versa, to ensure a peg.
DEI – which traded 3 cents below its peg on Sunday – lost 20 cents on Sunday night as traders likely exchanged DEI tokens for USDC amid a small amount of liquidity on decentralized exchanges, which caused price fluctuations. Lower prices led to more traders selling DEI for other tokens, presumably to protect against risks, which further contributed to a price drop.
Separately, Deus developers had earlier paused a redemption mechanism for DEI – which allows investors to redeem DEI for other tokens – that may have contributed to the decline.
As such, developers on Deus’ Telegram channel explained the lower liquidity was partly due to traders exiting stablecoin pools after UST’s collapse last week and a lower-than-usual backing for DEI tokens after a $13.4 million exploit on the Deus protocol in late April.
Meanwhile, DEI has regained the 72 cents level at writing time, with Deus developers stating a repegging plan using debt tokens was in place that would prevent a collapse of the peg in the future.
The slump follows Terra ecosystem project UST costing its investors billions of dollars as it lost its peg and fell to as low as 22 cents. Associated token luna (LUNA) dropped to pennies from trading over $100 earlier this month, losing as much as 99.7% of its value in under a week.
Panic around UST last week led to a similar sell-off in other stablecoins, such as Waves’ stablecoin USDN which lost 15%."
112,266,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/16/ust-wont-be-the-end-of-algorithmic-stablecoins/,UST Won't Be the End of Algorithmic Stablecoins,"The trail for a monetary ""Holy Grail"" continues, despite Terra’s collapse. So what do we do about it?",2022-05-16,"Is this the end of the algorithmic stablecoin?
Last week, UST, the digital asset that was supposed to represent the value of $1, exploded in a spectacular fashion. The stablecoin, which once had an $18 billion market cap, is now trading for less than 60 cents – well off its peg to the greenback. Terraform Labs, the organization that built the system, supposedly deployed about $3 billion worth of bitcoin, paused the blockchain, flooded the market with UST’s sister token LUNA and tried to pay out arbitrageurs taking advantage of the volatile situation in an effort to rescue its network.
Those expensive gambles failed, and even Do Kwon’s, UST’s principal architect, said the network as it once was can’t be salvaged. Terra is working on something of a repayment plan for “small” token holders.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
All of this raises two very important questions for the industry: Are all “algos,” or algorithmic stablecoins, dead on arrival? And should there be regulation in place to prevent a similar disaster?
At least one person thinks this isn’t the end for algos. Jonathan Wu, who’s the head of growth at the Aztec Network, a layer 2 network, told cryptocurrency podcaster Laura Shin just that.
“The algorithmic stablecoin is a holy grail. If you think about what an undercollateralized, algorithmic stablecoin is, it is printing money out of thin air. There will always be capital chasing that dream in my opinion,” Wu said on an “Unchained” podcast episode last week.
If one person thinks that, others likely do, too. And with somewhat understandable reasons. Wu painted with broad strokes: Stablecoins are necessary to smooth out crypto’s volatility, and if there’s a cheaper way to do that, people will attempt it.
There are essentially two stablecoin models: collateralized and uncollateralized. Collateralized stablecoins like USDC or tether maintain financial reserves like currencies or bonds in things like bank accounts to ensure that holders of these synthetic dollars can redeem them for actual money, at some point.
Algos forgo this failsafe and attempt to maintain their pegs through other financial means. UST used an on-chain redemption tool and a related token, LUNA, that was supposed to prop up UST’s value based on changing supply and demand. LUNA was burned or minted as UST rose or fell against the dollar.
The purpose was to create a “crypto-native” dollar – with all of the supposed benefits of blockchains, like censorship resistance – that would be cheaper to use than a fully or partially collateralized option.
Wu’s back-of-the-napkin math had it that UST users could print a synthetic dollar on Terra for about 20 cents. He compared that with dai, a blockchain-based stablecoin maintained by MakerDAO that holds overcollateralized crypto reserves, which costs $2 to use, Wu said.
See also: '$DAI Will Die' Tweet Twisted Back on Terra's Kwon as UST Loses $1 Peg
“Now if I'm a venture capitalist or any capital provider, I'm looking at this and I'm saying I can create a monetary system that's 10 times more capital efficient than the alternative. I'm willing to chase that dream over and over and over again,” Wu said.
Moreover, Wu said that “collectively, as an ecosystem, we've shown that we're willing to chase that dream over and over again and risk systemic toxicity in DeFi (decentralized finance) markets.”
Just think of the value creation.
But what of the value that’s been destroyed?
Before it imploded last week, UST substantially deviated from its peg only twice, including once in December 2020, when it fell to about 85 cents, and again in May 2021, when it dropped to 94 cents. In other words, Terra functioned more or less as promised until it didn’t.
Along the way, however, figures like University of Calgary professor Ryan Clements were sounding the alarm bell. In October’s Wake Forest University Law Review, Clements wrote a considered piece claiming that all algos are doomed.
These are assets that, like fiat, have value because a committed group of people say they do. The issue is, Terra’s user base is necessarily smaller than the U.S. economy, and although it had “lunatic” fans, the blockchain lacked an army.
Apart from the demand issue, Clements noted that Terra relied on “self-interested” investors who could profit from its algorithm as it began to fail. That problem, as we saw last week, is compounded by a “herd-like” sell pressure that accelerates a sell-off.
Other algos – like magic internet money (MIM), frax (FRAX) and neutrino usd (USDN) – are far from immune, Clements argued. Because they are backed by volatile assets and prone to herd behavior, algos “exist in a state of perpetual vulnerability,” he wrote.
Just today, Deus Finance's algo called dei (DEI) fell to as low as 54 cents during European trading hours, a drop that was in part precipitated by volatility across stablecoin trading. Kwon’s previous project Basis Cash similarly exploded, as did the algorithmic stablecoin IRON – which prompted investor Mark Cuban to call for stablecoin regulation.
“What is an algorithmic stablecoin? Is it stable? Do buyers understand what the risks are? It needs standards,” Cuban tweeted in September.
Cuban was mocked at the time for his hypocrisy and aversion to risk, but that – regulation – is certainly where all of this points. If it’s not possible for on-chain mechanisms to maintain their own price controls, then some other entity will come in to set standards.
CoinDesk’s own Nikhilesh De wrote about the need for proper oversight, and he is far from alone. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen commented last week on the UST crisis. The question remains, what will regulations look like?
Unfortunately, for the crypto industry, they won’t necessarily get to write their own rules – even if they can participate in the drafting process.
“I expect the regulation will look like more and more governance tokens being considered securities,” notable industry skeptic Bennett Tomlin told The Node in a private message. “[Governance tokens] have claims against assets, claims against cash flows often and are the easiest target for regulators.”
Unfortunately for regulators, anyone can create a crypto system – a process that means financial cops have been and will likely continue playing whack-a-mole with issuers. Although the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has begun to crack down on the industry, issuing broad warnings and doubling the size of its crypto enforcement wing – even with clear rules, there will still be some anarchists like Kwon willing to buck the system.
Nic Carter, a venture capitalist and CoinDesk columnist, doesn’t see official guidance as helping either, for similar reasons. But the industry, which was already highly skeptical of stablecoins, could enforce its own rules.
“I don’t think you can proactively regulate stuff like UST out of existence, any more than you can regulate plustoken or paycoin or onecoin or other similar schemes,” Carter told me. He added that UST was never “befitting of the word stablecoin” because its “true objective was to pump LUNA.”
“So the questions of ‘how do we regulate USDC’ and ‘what do we do about UST/Luna’ are totally distinct,” he said. “The latter is more about how do you stop large-scale financial fraud from happening.”
See also: Top US Lawmaker Proposes Sweeping Stablecoin Regulation
Rules are coming for stablecoins to make them look and function more like banks. Similar rules can be self-enforced in the crypto industry. Users could demand robust reserves even for algos, or something like “an orthodox currency board,” Carter said, referring to the monetary authorities that maintain exchange rates for foreign currencies.
Whether a system like that is possible and whether those authorities will use tokens that increasingly look like securities are open questions. But it does seem like one lesson for many investors is to choose collateralized stablecoins in the future.
How long that preference will remain or how long the memory of UST’s implosion can stay in mind is another can of worms.
As Wu said, algorithmic stablecoins are the “holy grail.” Or, as Tomlin put it, “The main reason I think people will keep trying is the appearance of free money.”"
113,37,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/16/kwon-proposes-forking-terra-in-revival-plan-2/,"Kwon Proposes Forking Terra, Nixing UST Stablecoin in ‘Revival Plan 2’","“$UST peg failure is Terra’s DAO hack moment,” the Terraform Labs CEO wrote, “a chance to rise up anew from the ashes.”",2022-05-16,"Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon is out with a new “Revival Plan” to save the Terra ecosystem in the wake of last week’s stablecoin meltdown. His new slogan: “Terra is more than UST.”
Calling the $40 billion implosion “a chance to rise up anew from the ashes,” Kwon said that “the ecosystem and its community are worth preserving” as he pitched the second take revival plan as a “living document.”
In Monday’s post and an accompanying Twitter thread, Kwon proposed forking Terra into a new chain sans terraUSD (UST), the algorithmic stablecoin whose depegging crushed the entire ecosystem, the LUNA token included. Holders of LUNA on the “Classic” chain (the existing chain) would receive an airdrop of the new chain’s token under the plan. The old chain will continue to operate using the newly renamed luna classic (LUNC) token.
Kwon said the new chain will be “fully community owned,” and Terraform Labs – Kwon’s company and the creators of Terra – will not be eligible to receive funds in the initial token disbursement.
The plan will go into effect if it’s voted through by token holders. Kwon promised voting would begin on May 18. According to his proposed timeline, the new network launch could come as soon as May 27.
In what may have marked the largest token collapse in crypto history, Terra’s $40 billion stablecoin juggernaut crashed last week. Terra’s UST stablecoin, which is supposed to stay “pegged” to the price of the dollar, plummeted below 10 cents. LUNA, which UST’s “algorithm” uses to help prop up the stablecoin’s dollar peg, dropped from $80 to below 1 cent amid the turmoil.
In a tweet Monday, the Luna Foundation Guard, stewards of Terra’s vast bitcoin (BTC) reserves, explained that it sold off virtually all of its over-2 billion dollars worth of bitcoin in an ultimately failed attempt to defend UST’s peg. The announcement dashed any hope that Terra might be able to use the reserves to substantially compensate investors.
Monday’s announcement from Kwon followed an original “Revival Plan” he proposed last week. The earlier plan, while light on specifics, also proposed handing ownership of Terra over to its community.
Compared to the earlier plan, the newer one places a larger percentage of the forked chain’s initial token distribution (25% versus 10%) into a “Community Pool” responsible for funding future development. The new plan also gives 5% of the tokens to “essential developers” – a group not mentioned in the original proposal.
The vast majority of new LUNA tokens would go to those who lost billions of dollars from last week’s collapse. Following a vesting schedule, smaller holders would get their full allocations faster than whales, or large holders, who might have to wait up to five years. Terraform Labs would get nothing under the deal.
UPDATE (May 16, 18:25 UTC): Adds details throughout."
114,188,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/market-wrap-cryptos-mixed-as-volatility-fades-traders-expect-weak-recovery/,"Market Wrap: Cryptos Mixed as Volatility Fades, Traders Expect Weak Recovery","Bitcoin's average trading volume rose toward its highest level since January, which could point to a brief period of price stabilization.",2022-05-16,"Bitcoin (BTC) was roughly flat on Monday, while some alternative cryptos (altcoins) underperformed, indicating a lower appetite for risk among traders.
LUNA, Terra's governance token, declined by 18% over the past 24 hours, compared with a 6% drop in GALA and a 5% decline in AVAX and DOT over the same period. Typically, alts decline more than bitcoin in down markets because of their higher risk profile.
Still, the uptick in trading volume during last week's sell-off coupled with fading volatility could point to a brief upswing in crypto prices.
Just launched! Please sign up for our daily Market Wrap newsletter explaining what happens in crypto markets – and why.
Technical indicators suggests a weak price recovery for bitcoin, which requires another weekly close above $30,000 to encourage buying activity. Still, the recovery could fade at around $33,000-$35,000 because of negative momentum signals on the charts.
Meanwhile, Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon released a “revival plan” to save the Terra network after last week’s meltdown. Kwon proposed forking Terra into a new chain without terraUSD (UST). The plan could go into effect if token holders approve it. Read more here.
During last week's UST de-peg, ""other major stablecoins such as USDC, BUSD and DAI experienced a 1% to 2% premium as investors moved toward assets they perceived were less at risk of contagion,"" Glassnode wrote in a blog post. That suggests, for now, that risks surrounding UST have been contained.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $29,727, −1.98%
●Ether (ETH): $2,017, −3.39%
●S&P 500 daily close: $4,010, −0.36%
●Gold: $1,823 per troy ounce, +0.88%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.88%
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin's average trading volume last week rose toward its highest level since January. That happened during a time of extreme bearish sentiment.
Trading volume declined over the past weekend, but remains elevated – almost twice as high the average volume levels recorded in April, according to Arcane Research.
Still, in the futures market, bitcoin's open interest, or the total number of derivatives contracts outstanding on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, continues to decline from its recent peak on March 28. That suggests the recent sell-off emanated from trading activity in the spot market rather than from leveraged traders in the futures market, although liquidations have accelerated the downward price moves.
Bitcoin's implied volatility also remains elevated following last week's sell-off. Further, intraday volatility reached its highest level since May of last year, according to Arcane Research.
""The key contributor to surging intraday volatility tends to be massive destabilizing effects in derivatives with leveraged positions unwinding, causing knock-off effects in all associated markets,"" Arcane wrote.
Typically, volatility spikes are short-lived, especially if price declines stabilize. Some traders remain cautious because of the weak recovery in crypto and equity prices following last week's sell-off.
QCP Capital, a Singapore-based crypto trading firm, stated that it intends to keep long volatility positions open in anticipation of choppy markets, according to a recent Telegram announcement. The firm is watching for news on the fallout from the Terra stablecoin debacle, which could be a source of additional volatility in the future.
Still, others are looking for opportunities to fade the spike in volatility. ""In the short term, spot prices have likely bottomed out while option volatility likely peaked,"" Greg Magadini, CEO of Genesis Volatility, wrote in a blog post on Sunday.
""Should prices find stability and bounce violently higher, fading the skew is a prime volatility trade,"" Magadini wrote, referring to the anticipated decline in the relative volatility of put options versus call options.
Morgan Stanley warns about NFTs: The bank said non-fungible tokens (NFTs) may be the next part of crypto requiring re-evaluation after DeFi (decentralized finance) tokens and stablecoins saw liquidations, “as it is becoming clearer that all the elevated prices were traded on speculation, with limited real user demand.” Read more here
UST reserves evaporates: Luna Foundation Guard, the nonprofit that was supposed to save Terra’s stablecoin UST in a crisis, broke its multiday silence and confirmed that its reserve that was once $3 billion mostly held in bitcoin has dwindled to $100 million. As UST fell into a death spiral, LFG said that it sold the reserve to restore UST’s peg and denied allegations that it bailed out insiders with it. Earlier, blockchain analytics firm Elliptic tracked the money to major exchanges Gemini and Binance. Read more here
Investors flee stablecoins: As the market tries to stomach crypto’s Lehman Brothers moment after UST’s implosion, most stablecoins saw heavy outflows as investors lost confidence. Tether (USDT) has lost $8 billion in market cap in May, and the supply of dai (DAI) dropped 20% and frax (FRAX) almost halved, according to CoinMarketCap data. Meanwhile, the Fantom blockchain’s algorithmic stablecoin, Deus Finance's dei, lost its peg during the day. Read more here
Listen 🎧: The CoinDesk Markets Daily podcast team is back to discuss what a recent bill on crypto mining might means for New York’s economy.
Crypto Funds Saw Year's Highest Inflows as Terra Crisis Crashed Markets: Some $274 million flowed into digital asset funds as investors bought the dip amid a broad crypto-market sell-off triggered by Terra's turmoil.
Portugal Makes U-Turn on Cryptocurrency Tax: Reversing its previous hands-off stance, the nation will impose taxes on the exchange and sale of cryptocurrencies.
German Regulator Calls for New DeFi Laws: BaFin's Birgit Rodolphe cites the potential for fraud and investor losses.
Japan’s Nomura Said to Launch Crypto Unit With DeFi and NFTs on Menu: The Japanese investment bank carried out its first cryptocurrency derivatives trades last week.
ECB’s Panetta: Digital Euro Could Come Out Within 4 Years: Peer-to-peer payments could be a first test case, though no final decision has been made yet on whether to have a digital euro.
Nigeria’s SEC Affirms All Digital Assets Are Securities in New Rulebook: Rules look to clarify crypto’s role in the economy by providing a regulatory framework.
Indian Central Bank Says Cryptos Could Lead to ‘Dollarization’ of Economy: RBI officials said cryptocurrencies could undermine the central bank's capacity to regulate the flow of money.
Celsius Network Files Draft S-1 Form to Take Its Mining Unit Public: The filing is expected to become effective after the SEC completes its review process, subject to market and other conditions.
US and EU Look to Blockchain to Track Greenhouse Gas Emissions: The U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council’s Climate and Clean Tech working group announced its aims in a joint document published Monday.
Most digital assets in the CoinDesk 20 ended the day lower.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk 20 is a ranking of the largest digital assets by volume on trusted exchanges."
115,314,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/16/bitcoin-sees-seven-straight-weeks-of-losses-for-the-first-time/,Bitcoin Sees 7 Straight Weeks of Losses for First Time,Fears of inflation and poor macroeconomic sentiment have caused bitcoin to fail as an inflation hedge in recent weeks.,2022-05-16,"Bitcoin (BTC) has had seven straight weeks of losses for the time first in its history amid a downturn in broader markets, stricter crypto regulations, waning retail interest and systemic risks in the crypto sector, data shows.
Bitcoin neared the $47,000 level in mid-March in a run that lasted a couple of weeks after a fall to $37,000 from November’s lifetime highs of nearly $69,000. The asset has since slid every week and could fall to as low as $20,000 if current market conditions continue.
Bitcoin, the world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, has been long positioned as a hedge against inflation, or an investment that is supposed to protect against the decreased purchasing power of currencies or other assets.
That has failed to happen so far, however, as bitcoin is highly correlated with global markets and has traded similar to a risky technology stocks in the past few months. Meanwhile, some analysts say investors are selling bitcoin as it advances.
""In our view, the trend of selling cryptocurrency on upside movements remains. Adding to the downside is the bleak outlook for U.S. monetary policy, where no light at the end of the tunnel with rate hikes can be seen yet,"" FxPro market analyst Alex Kuptsikevich wrote in an email.
""We expect the bears not to loosen their grip in the coming weeks. In our opinion, a turnaround in sentiment may not come until the approach of the 2018 highs area near $19,600,"" Kuptsikevich added.
Bitcoin fell to as low as $24,000 last week as stablecoin tether (USDT) briefly lost its peg to the U.S. dollar. Sentiment among investors was already reeling from the implosion of Terra’s LUNA and its stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
Inflation concerns have contributed to bitcoin’s fall in the past several weeks. Earlier this month, the U.S. Federal Reserve hiked rates by the largest amount since 2000 as it seeks to tighten monetary policy following $2 trillion in stimulus in the past few years.
In April, Goldman Sachs analysts said in a note that the Fed's aggressive measures to control inflation could result in a recession. The investment bank put the odds of an economic contraction – a phase of the business cycle in which the economy as a whole is in decline – at about 35% over the next two years.
Former Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein reiterated that sentiment over the weekend, stating the U.S. economy was at a “very, very high risk.” Such an environment could cause a drawdown in U.S. equities, which may spread to bitcoin and cause further sell-offs in the coming weeks if the current correlation continues.
The risks of a sell-off could already be starting to show. Last week, the $18.3 billion Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), the world's largest bitcoin fund, saw its market discount widen to an all-time low of 30.79%, as reported. The discount could be taken as a bearish indicator because it might mean a waning interest in bitcoin among traders. Grayscale and CoinDesk are both owned by Digital Currency Group.
GBTC is one of the only ways for traders in the U.S. to gain exposure to the price movements of bitcoin without the need to purchase the actual cryptocurrency.
Bitcoin was hovering under the pivotal support level of $30,000 at the time of this writing, CoinGecko data shows."
116,152,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/16/luna-foundation-guard-left-with-313-bitcoin-after-ust-crash/,LFG Reserves Dwindle to Just 313 Bitcoins From 80K After UST Crash,"The announcement comes after criticism of the Luna Foundation Guard's ""lack of transparency.""",2022-05-16,"The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), official stewards of Terra’s bitcoin (BTC) reserves, released a statement on Monday documenting how it disbursed millions of dollars' worth of crypto in its failed attempt to maintain the peg of stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
In the statement, LFG notes that it has almost entirely depleted its BTC reserves from around 80,000 bitcoins to 313. The remaining assets, which mostly comprise the crashed UST and LUNA tokens, will apparently be used to compensate investors.
In a subsequent tweet, LFG denied accusations that it bailed out whales with the bitcoin trove: “there was never any deal for ‘insiders’ to exit. LFG funds were merely used squarely within its mandate to help protect UST peg.”
In one of the most calamitous events in crypto memory, the $40 billion Terra ecosystem collapsed last week when the UST stablecoin, which is supposed to be worth $1, dropped to below 20 cents. The LUNA token, which is designed to serve as a sort of shock absorber for UST’s “algorithmic” dollar-pegging mechanism, crashed from $80 to below 2 cents.
In a tweet on Monday, LFG said it sold off most of the BTC in its reserves for UST as Terra’s ecosystem was beginning to collapse early last week.
LFG said it transferred more than 50,000 bitcoins “to trade with a counterparty” on May 8, as the UST price was originally starting to slump.
It said the funds were used for “directly executing on-chain swaps and transferring $BTC to a counterparty to enable them to enter trades with the Foundation in large size and on short notice.”
On May 12, LFG said another 30,000 BTC from its reserves were sold off by Terraform Labs, the original company behind Terra, “in a last ditch effort to defend the peg.”
That, however, failed to restore UST’s peg to the U.S. dollar as traders continued to sell the token for other stablecoins, leading to an exodus of capital away from UST and thus lower prices.
LFG confirmed the remainder of its reserves, which once totaled over $3 billion, have sunk almost completely as a result of the unsuccessful effort to defend UST.
LFG says these funds will be used “to compensate remaining users of UST, smallest holders first.”
Monday’s statement from LFG comes amid criticism that Terra’s reserve funds, which were supposed to belong to the “decentralized” Terra community, were handled with a lack of transparency by Terra’s centralized leaders and investors.
It also comes after leading figures in the blockchain sector, including Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin, have called for Terra to compensate smaller holders of UST and LUNA before its largest investors.
UST’s price plummeted further in response to Monday’s announcement – from 15 cents to 7 cents.
Meanwhile, only about $80 million worth of other cryptocurrencies – apart from UST and LUNA – remain in LFG’s reserves at current prices, a tiny figure compared with its $10 billion target reserve at the start of this month.
UPDATE (May 16, 13:29 UTC): Updates headline, adds additional details in eight and 14th paragraph.
UPDATE (May 16, 15:10 UTC): Adds third paragraph regarding insider allegations."
117,116,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/16/first-mover-americas-may-brings-showers-not-flowers-as-bitcoin-languishes-in-terra-aftermath/,First Mover Americas: May Brings Showers Not Flowers as Bitcoin Languishes in Terra Aftermath,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 16, 2022.",2022-05-16,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Brad Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off this week.)
Market Moves: May was supposed to be a strong market for bitcoin. Instead crypto markets have been pummeled by the Terra blockchain crisis and ever-tighter Federal Reserve monetary policies.
Feature: Where did all that bitcoin go? The Luna Foundation Guard behind the ""reserve"" for Terra's UST stablecoin provides an update, but skeptics abound.
The month of May is typically one of the strongest times of the year for bitcoin's performance, with an average 18% return over the past nine years.
But as crypto markets head into the back half of May, bitcoin is down 21% so far this month, currently around $30,000, and few analysts are predicting a quick rebound. CoinDesk's Shaurya Malwa reported Monday that bitcoin (BTC) has now fallen for a record seven straight weeks – a dismal stretch that's unparalleled in nearly a decade of pricing history on the largest cryptocurrency.
Aside from the epic collapse last week of the Terra blockchain's LUNA token and its UST stablecoin (more on that below), there appears to be little relief ahead from the direction of traditional markets. The Federal Reserve shows little inclination to ease back from tightening monetary policy aggressively to tamp down the hottest inflation in four decades.
Bitcoin has become increasingly correlated with U.S. technology stocks lately, so a hawkish Fed just puts more pressure on the cryptocurrency's price. (Economic data is expected this week on the state of U.S. manufacturing, retail sales and the housing market.)
""Adding to the downside is the bleak outlook for U.S. monetary policy, where no light at the end of the tunnel with rate hikes can be seen yet,"" FxPro market analyst Alex Kuptsikevich told Malwa in an email. ""We expect the bears not to loosen their grip in the coming weeks.""
U.S. stock futures were lower on Monday, along with European equity indexes.
Goldman Sachs Senior Chairman Lloyd Blankfein over the weekend offered an example of just how bearish the sentiment has become, stating the U.S. economy was at a “very, very high risk.” Such an environment could cause a drawdown in U.S. equities, which may spread to bitcoin and cause further sell-offs in the coming weeks if the current correlation continues.
""Multiple headwinds have given market players almost nowhere to hide in any asset class,"" David Duong, head of research for Coinbase Institutional, wrote in a note on Friday. ""The downside scenarios are certainly still in play.""
Duong says that from a price-chart perspective, bitcoin is in a “no-man’s land” with the next major technical support at the 200-week moving price average around the $22,000-23,000 area. ""If things were to deteriorate further, the next line of support would come at around $20,000, which was the all-time high in the previous 2017/2018 cycle,"" according to Duong.
The debacle that was last week's destruction of more than $40 billion of value from the Terra collapse has left crypto traders rattled. The Crypto Fear & Greed Index from the website Alternative.me is registering ""extreme fear."" BitMEX founder Arthur Hayes described the Terra episode as ""Luna Brothers Inc.,"" recalling the swift collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 that nearly brought down the global financial system. ""With the so-called death spiral now halted, investors will be keen to see if tokens can maintain their price levels for the next few days at least,"" Simon Peters, a market analyst for the crypto trading platform eToro, wrote Monday.
That said, there may be more signs of contagion from the Terra fallout. Deus Finance's stablecoin dei (DEI) lost its peg with U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 54 cents in European hours on Monday, data shows. And the Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley wrote in a report last week that high-flying non-fungible tokens (NFTs) might be due for a reevaluation, arguing that the most speculative and leveraged areas of crypto markets are now in focus.
To be sure, the biggest hope for the bulls might come from reports of continuing interest in cryptocurrencies from Wall Street and institutional investors. Elwood Technologies, the cryptocurrency company backed by billionaire fund manager Alan Howard, raised $70 million in a funding round co-led by Goldman Sachs and Dawn Capital, CoinDesk's Ian Allison reported Monday.
""Retail investors are no longer alone in seeing the value of the sector, and in the background long-term investor plans are still being built,"" Peters wrote.
Bitcoin Sees 7 Straight Weeks of Losses for First Time Fears of inflation and poor macroeconomic sentiment have caused bitcoin to fail as an inflation hedge in recent weeks.
Crypto Hedge Fund Elwood Closes $70M Funding Led by Goldman Sachs and Dawn Capital Dawn Capital co-led the Series A alongside CommerzVentures, Barclays, Galaxy Digital Ventures and BlockFi Ventures.
Australian Tax Office Warns Crypto Investors on Capital Gains Obligations The rate of capital gains tax on digital assets in Australia is determined by an investor's income tax rate.
Digital Euro Could Come Out Within 4 Years, ECB's Panetta Says Peer-to-peer payments among friends could be a first test case, though no final decision has been made yet.
Grayscale Investments to List Its First ETF in Europe The Grayscale Future of Finance exchange-traded fund will list on the London Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse and Borsa Italiana.
Indian Central Bank Says Cryptos Could Lead to ""Dollarization"" of Economy: Report RBI officials said cryptocurrencies could undermine the central bank's capacity to regulate flow of money.
Nigeria’s SEC Affirms All Digital Assets Are Securities in New Rule Book Rules look to clarify crypto’s role in the economy by providing a regulatory framework.
By Sam Kessler
The Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), official stewards of Terra’s bitcoin reserves, released a statement on Monday documenting how it disbursed millions of dollars worth of crypto in its failed attempt to maintain the peg of stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
In the statement, LFG notes that its BTC reserves have depleted almost entirely – from around 80,000 BTC to about 300. The remaining assets, which are mostly comprised of the crashed UST and LUNA tokens, will apparently be used to compensate investors.
Monday’s statement from LFG comes amid criticism that Terra’s reserve funds – which were supposed to belong to the “decentralized” Terra community – were handled with a lack of transparency by Terra’s centralized leaders and investors.
It also comes after leading figures in the blockchain space, including Ethereum Founder Vitalik Buterin, have called for Terra to compensate smaller holders of UST and LUNA before its largest investors.
""There seems to be little hope for those hoping that some of the reserves could be used to compensate users of the stablecoin – since so little of it remains,"" Tom Robinson, chief scientist and co-founder at the blockchain analysis firm Elliptic, wrote in an email. ""Of course we will wait to see whether LFG can provide proof to back up their statements.""
Read More: Luna Foundation Guard Left With 313 Bitcoin After UST Crash
Today’s newsletter was edited by Brad Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
118,283,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/17/first-mover-asia-usdc-hasnt-flippened-usdt-but-trader-preferences-are-changing-cryptos-rise-despite-bearishness/,"First Mover Asia: USDC Hasn’t ‘Flippened’ USDT, but Trader Preferences Are Changing; Cryptos Rise Despite Bearishness","A Glassnode analyst suggests the collapse of the UST token has triggered a change in investors' stablecoin preferences; bitcoin holds above $30,000.",2022-05-17,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos see green, but market sentiment remains bearish.
Insights: Investors change their stablecoin preferences.
Technician's take: BTC is on track to register a positive momentum signal on the daily chart.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,466 +1.6%
Ether (ETH): $2,092 +3.1%
Bitcoin and other major cryptos see green
Bitcoin and other major cryptos were largely in the green late Tuesday as the market continued to solidify, but the small surge seemed more a temporary reprieve than sea change in bearish sentiment that intensified last week during the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin implosion.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading over $30,400, a more than 1% gain over the past 24 hours. Ether was up about 3% during the same period, maintaining its most frequent, recent perch above $2,000. ALGO and MATIC each rose over 7%. SOL, CRO and ADA recovered from midday drops and were up about 4%.
""The crash of [Terra’s] UST stablecoin has heralded the end of a momentous bull run,"" Yield App CEO and founder Tim Frost wrote in an email. ""The market is 54% below"" its ""all-time high and won’t be climbing far any time soon as we face what looks set to be a painfully prolonged bear market.""
Cryptos traced equity markets, which rose amid encouraging U.S. retail spending and industrial production reports and cautiously optimistic remarks by U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. The tech-focused Nasdaq jumped 2.7%, while the the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 2% and 1.3%, respectively.
The U.S. Commerce Department said on Tuesday that retail sales had risen 0.9% in April, the fourth consecutive monthly increase and evidence that surging inflation has not completely damped consumers' appetites for goods and services. The report noted increased spending on electronics, cars and clothing, even as consumers spent less on gas, which has been a primary source of the recent months' cost run-ups. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said industrial production rose 1.1% in April, also its fourth straight monthly gain.
In remarks at The Wall Street Journal's Future of Everything Festival on Tuesday, Powell called “restoring price stability a nonnegotiable need."" ""It is something we have to do,"" he said, adding that he was hopeful the Fed could tame inflation without triggering huge increases in unemployment or a deep recession. ""It is a challenging task, made more challenging the last couple months because of global events,” Powell said. “It is challenging because unemployment is very low already and because inflation is very high.”
Yield App's Frost said the collapse of UST was ""nothing short of harrowing.""
""Any thorough due diligence assessment would have revealed that this asset could not withstand a bank run,"" he wrote. ""And withstand a bank run it truly did not.""
Still, he added optimistically that other protocols would learn from the ""UST disaster, lessons that will use the resulting bear market to develop the next generation of decentralized finance products. When we enter the next bull run, the fruits of their labor will be the world’s new financial system.""
S&P 500: 4,882 +2%
DJIA: 32,654 +1.3%
Nasdaq: 11,984 +2.7%
Gold: $1,814 -0.6%
Investors change their stablecoin preferences
LUNA and UST’s collapse is still reverberating through the broader crypto market. Bitcoin has fallen significantly in recent months and is now seemingly stuck around the $30,000 mark.
The most significant impact on the market isn’t an evisceration of crypto pricing from the start of the year, a trend that the collapse accelerated, but rather a brewing crisis of confidence in the stablecoin sector.
Data from Glassnode shows an inverse relationship between issuances of tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC) as well as Binance USD (BUSD). Tether tokens are exiting circulation via redemption (being exchanged for cash) while more USDC and BUSD are being issued because of demand.
“The redemptions of USDT were around $7.5 billion, whilst the supply of USDC grew by $2.64 billion and BUSD by $1 billion. So all in all we had around $3.64 billion in supply expansion, and $7.5 billion in contraction, meaning a net outflow of $3.76 billion,” James Check, an analyst at Glassnode, wrote to CoinDesk in an email.
DAI, another algorithmic stablecoin but structured differently than UST, also saw a decline in circulating supply by 24.4%, as $2.067 billion was burned.
“What we are potentially watching is a changing preference for which stablecoins the market prefers,” Check said.
Check suspects a large trader or traders used the momentum of the ""UST depeg"" narrative to lean on the USDT peg in the hopes it would generate downside fear, which he believes it did.
“We saw the distressed sale of the [Luna Foundation Guard’s] 80K BTC, and then a few days later, USDT pairs on some exchanges come under pressure, making for a perfect storm for a sophisticated short side trade,” he said.
But it’s important to note that despite all this, the USDT dollar peg quickly recovered. A large, rapid volume of redemptions happened in a short time, and the system kept functioning.
“As stablecoins become increasingly integrated as base layer infrastructure in the market, the shockwaves of a de-pegging event, especially in the largest stablecoin USDT will have widespread impacts,” Check wrote in a note published last week. “This event will also no doubt attract the regulatory spotlight at a greater pace and urgency.”
USDC has a long way to go before it ever has a change of ""flippening"" tether. But the data can’t be ignored: With a crisis of confidence brewing for stablecoins, it’s USDC (and BUSD) that the traders want, not tether.
Bitcoin Rises to $30K; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) continues to trade around $30,000, which is near the bottom of a year-long price range. The cryptocurrency appears to be stabilizing, although resistance at $33,000 and $35,000 could stall an upswing in price.
BTC was roughly flat over the past 24 hours and is down by 24% over the past 30 days. The recent sell-off extended bitcoin's short-term downtrend despite oversold conditions on the chart.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, reached on May 12 when BTC declined toward $25,300. Typically, oversold signals precede a price bounce, similar to what occurred in late January.
Further, on the daily chart, BTC on track to register a positive momentum signal, per the MACD indicator for the first time since late March. Still, momentum signals remain negative on the weekly and monthly charts, which suggests limited upside from here.
Permissionless DeFi Conference
G7 finance ministers meeting
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC): Australia wage price index (MoM/YoY/Q1)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Interest in Crypto, Blockchain Use Cases, UST Depegging, BTC and ETH Hover Above Support Levels
Ernst & Young Principal and Global Innovation Leader Paul Brody joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the state of crypto following the UST and luna crashes. Also, can blockchain help to address the global supply chain crisis? Plus, Andre Portilho of BTG Pactual provided crypto markets analysis and Ron Hammond of the Blockchain Association discussed crypto regulation.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange: At Japan's Liquid exchange, recently acquired by FTX, warnings were ignored, breaches unreported and employees berated and cursed at, insiders say.
Big-Money Investors Who Boosted Bitcoin’s Price Might Now Crash It: Everyone celebrated the arrival of institutional investors to the bitcoin market, as their rising adoption helped send prices soaring. Now, with correlations to traditional markets at an all-time high, fingers are pointing over the market swoon.
Terraform's Legal Team Quits Amid Terra Stablecoin Fallout: Marc Goldich, Lawrence Florio and Noah Axler left the Terra ecosystem backer in May, according to their LinkedIn profiles.
A16z Addresses Downturn in Inaugural State of Crypto Report: The report discussed Web 3 trends and why Ethereum remains the dominant blockchain.
Blockchain Investment Firm Fortis Digital Raising $100M Fund: The fund focuses on altcoins and requires potential investors to have a minimum $2.5 million net worth.
Meltem Demirors: 'If I Dress Like a Disco Ball, Let Me': She's a crypto OG. Stylish. Unapologetic. And a priestess of her own cult. Demirors is a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival in June.
Today's crypto explainer: What Can You Buy With Bitcoin?
Other voices: Cryptoverse: Stablecoins wend wobbly way into the unknown (Reuters)
“Web 3’s open access eliminates the power hierarchy, enabling creators to take control of their businesses. Spencer (Dinwiddie] noted that 'our ""New Money"" conversations taught us about the pressing urgency for creators to be able to monetize directly, without the interference of a third-party,' and that newly developed, decentralized platforms provide more efficient avenues for transactions between creators and fans.” (Calaxy COO and co-founder Solo Ceesay) ... “We have both the tools and the resolve to get inflation back down,” [Federal Reserve chief Jerome] Powell said during an appearance at The Wall Street Journal’s Future of Everything Festival, adding that the Fed is tightly focused on the task. The central bank is raising interest rates as part of its most aggressive effort in decades to curb upward price pressures. “We need to see inflation coming down in a convincing way,” Mr. Powell said. “Until we do, we’ll keep going.” (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Retail sales – a measure of spending at stores, online and in restaurants – rose a seasonally adjusted 0.9% last month compared with March, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. That marked the fourth straight month of higher retail spending."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
119,263,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/17/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-retakes-30k-as-institutional-adoption-makes-crypto-more-like-stonks/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Retakes $30K as 'Institutional Adoption' Makes Crypto More Like Stocks,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 17, 2022.",2022-05-17,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Brad Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off this week.)
Price point: Bitcoin retakes $30,000, but few analysts are ready to call a market bottom.
Market Moves: Everyone celebrated the arrival of institutional investors to the bitcoin market, as their rising adoption helped send prices soaring. Now, with correlations to traditional markets at an all-time high, fingers are pointing over the market swoon, Helene Braun reports.
Feature: Terra’s LUNA token gains and then slides, after blockchain founder Do Kwon proposes to create a separate chain or ""fork"" to make up for last week’s implosion of the UST stablecoin, Shaurya Malwa reports.
Bitcoin (BTC) was recently back above $30,000 after losing the crucial foothold on Monday.
With crypto markets still looking wobbly after last week's crisis on the Terra blockchain, any signs of stabilization should be heartily welcomed by bitcoin bulls. Arcane Research, a Norwegian cryptocurrency analysis firm, wrote Monday that the market could get a jolt of fresh energy if bitcoin ends the week over $32,000.
For the time being, though, ""there is little reason to argue that a prolonged rise will follow the current buying, as the fundamentals (tightening markets, slowing economy) remain in place,"" Alex Kuptsikevich, FxPro senior market analyst, wrote in emailed comments.
Ether (ETH) added 2.2% in the past 24 hours to trade above $2,000, with similar gains for Avalanche’s AVAX, BNB Chain’s BNB, and dogecoin.
Polygon’s MATIC (MATIC) gained 5.5% as Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt said the firm was working with Terra projects affected by last week’s implosion and would connect them to Polygon’s broader DeFi (decentralized finance) network. Terra held billions of dollars in value on various DeFi applications, such as Anchor, before last week’s fall.
In traditional markets, U.S. stock futures were higher ahead of Tuesday's exchange open in New York, along with gold. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note was up 0.04 percentage point to 2.92%. The U.S. dollar index (DXY) was down 0.8%.
The uplift in global markets came as traders priced in expectations of relaxation of rules in Shanghai after weeks of strict lockdowns, leading to a bump in Chinese stocks. Policymakers in Beijing are taking steps to alleviate the economic slowdown, with various moves in the past week.
Traders could get fresh clues on U.S. central bankers' latest plans to tamp down fast-rising inflation from a 2 p.m. ET (18:00 UTC) appearance by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell.
By Helene Braun
A key narrative in the crypto world in 2021 was the arrival of institutional investors to the market. Tesla (TSLA) bought $1.5 billion worth of bitcoin and Wall Street banks like JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS), as well as hedge funds, started to allocate clients' assets to bitcoin.
That was a sign of growing mainstream acceptance, and it appeared to drive up prices. Crypto boomed with the sector’s market capitalization growing 185% last year.
Now, as the crypto market's latest swoon wipes off $1.25 trillion from the industry's all-time high market capitalization reached late last year, the question is, what role is institutional money playing in the crash? Or to put it more bluntly, are institutional investors making things worse?
One thing we know: The crypto market is increasingly correlated to the stock market, and institutional investors appear to have heightened that correlation. And when the stock market goes down, it takes crypto with it.
“The influx of institutional interest in BTC, which started to pick up in early 2020 with public declarations of interest from stalwarts of traditional investing, such as Paul Tudor Jones and Renaissance Technologies, coincides with a sustained jump in the 60-day correlation between BTC and the S&P 500,” a report in April by Genesis Trading stated. (Genesis is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.)
Read More: Big-Money Investors Who Boosted Bitcoin’s Price Might Now Crash It
A16z Addresses Downturn in Inaugural State of Crypto Report The inaugural report discussed Web 3 trends and why Ethereum remains the dominant blockchain.
Citi Says Fallout From Terra Collapse Unlikely to Hit Wider Financial System Recent weakness in bitcoin and equities looks contemporaneous and doesn’t show any lag or lead effect, the bank’s analysts said.
Coinbase Pares Back Hiring Plans Amid Weak Earnings, Poor Market Condition The exchange previously planned to hire as many as 2,000 employees earlier this year.
Bitcoin Mining Appears to Have Survived Ban in China From September to January, China's contribution to the bitcoin mining network was second only to that of the U.S.
BitMEX Starts Spot Exchange on Eve of Co-Founder Hayes' Sentencing BitMEX co-founders Arthur Hayes will be sentenced for violation of the Bank Secrecy Act on Friday.
Terra’s LUNA Gains, Then Slides, After Do Kwon's Fork Proposal Traders sold the tokens even as founder Do Kwon proposed a separate chain to make up for last week’s implosion of UST.
Breaking Barriers to the Web 3 Creator Economy The latest innovations in blockchain technology are enabling creators to earn more from their work and achieve an unprecedented level of autonomy.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange At Japan's Liquid exchange, which was recently acquired by FTX, warnings were ignored, breaches unreported and employees berated and cursed at, insiders say.
By Shaurya Malwa
Terra’s LUNA shed nearly a quarter of its value in the past 24 hours after a proposed revival plan revealed by Kwon, the founder, data shows.
LUNA rose to as much as $0.00022 on Monday evening as plans to fork the current Terra blockchain went viral on social media. It then shed as much as 22% in early Asian hours to trade at just over $0.00017 at writing time. Some $2.1 billion worth of the tokens were traded in the past 24 hours alone.
The token is down more than 99% since its high in April of nearly $120. The drop came as excess LUNA was put into circulation last week to prevent the collapse of terraUSD (UST), a Terra ecosystem stablecoin pegged to U.S. dollars, as reported.
Sentiment remains mixed for the proposal among the crypto community.
Some said they would support the new chain and anticipated the airdrop to prior holders. Others suggested the plan was unfair, as it could vastly benefit investors who purchased massive amounts of LUNA at a few pennies more than those who purchased the tokens when they were valued above $100. To combat this, however, Kwon proposed holding two snapshots – one prior to UST’s collapse and one after – and airdropping equivalent amounts of new tokens.
Read More: Terra’s LUNA Gains, Then Slides, After Do Kwon's Fork Proposal
Today’s newsletter was edited by Brad Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher.
CORRECT (May 18, 3:55 UTC): Removes reference to Ben Delo in Latest Headlines section. An earlier version of this story said Delo would also be sentenced on Friday."
120,36,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/18/do-kwon-pushes-on-chain-proposal-live-even-as-92-vote-no-in-online-poll/,Do Kwon Pushes On-Chain Proposal Live Even as 92% Vote 'No' in Online Poll,"The plan to put Terra back on track after last week’s implosion was made live this morning, but online poll results suggest the community is against the move.",2022-05-18,"Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon on Wednesday morning announced an on-chain governance proposal even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
""Terra governance prop #1623 to rename the existing network Terra Classic, LUNA Classic ($LUNC), and rebirth a new Terra blockchain & LUNA ($LUNA) is now live,"" Kwon tweeted. He added that the proposal had the support of over 15 ""Terra builders.""
A hard fork means the splitting of a chain on which a certain protocol runs with different rules than the existing one, resulting in two separate blockchains. One chain then becomes the “main” one, even as both the blockchains continue to exist as long as there is validator and community support.
As per the proposal, the new chain would entirely cut out the failed UST product and instead focus on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications building on Terra, as reported. The current chain would continue as Terra “Classic,” while holders of LUNA on the “Classic” chain would receive a token airdrop of the new chain’s token under the plan.
At writing time, some 64% of voters on the on-chain proposal supported the fork, while 34% voted against it.
The community, however, is apparently not on board. Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll have voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork.”
Votes to the off-chain, online poll can be made by anyone regardless of if they hold luna (LUNA) tokens, unlike on-chain governance polls that require voters to stake luna before casting votes. Most comments on the proposal’s discussion are negative. Some even term it “anti-community,” while others urged legal intervention.
Market observers say a lack of trust in Terra and Kwon could have skewed the online preliminary poll voting towards being overwhelmingly negative.
“The primary challenge the Terra community has against a new fork as proposed by Do Kwon is trust,” said Dmitry Mishunin, founder of DeFi security firm HashEx, in a Telegram chat. ""Should the team choose to proceed with the new fork, there will be a need to increase trust.”
“As such, Terra needs to approach the fork with all responsibility and make additional checks for vulnerabilities,” Mishunin added.
Anton Gulin, a regional director at crypto exchange AAX, seconded the comment: “The overall sentiment towards Luna across the crypto community is exceptionally harmful. Traders and investors suffered tremendous losses and doubt management’s actions that followed the UST unpegging.”
“Anything incoming from Luna’s team may be treated in the same way as the lack of trust prevails. It’s rather a speculative asset now than a representation of a tier 1 ecosystem. The chances of a consensus are very low,” Gulin added.
Meanwhile, some prominent fund managers say Terra’s senior team could fork the blockchain regardless of the community’s sentiment toward the project.
“It's a dilemma for Kwon and Terra’s team as they can technically override the community's consensus by either forking regardless of the decision or using their staked Luna (to prevent the network from being manipulated) to change the voting to support,” Doo Wan Nam, founder of crypto fund Stable Node, in a Telegram chat.
“This will be received very poorly by not only the Terra community but the wider crypto community. However, Do and his team might not have much choice but to do it to better reflect his vision of the Terra ecosystem,” Doo added.
Although still a proposal, if a majority of network validators and the community were to approve the plan, the new network could be launched as soon as May 27, Kwon said in tweets earlier this week.
Last week, Terra’s LUNA tokens fell 99.7% as its U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lost its peg and dropped to under 10 cents, causing an outflow of funds from the Terra ecosystem and declining sentiment for the project among the crypto community."
121,272,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/18/bitcoin-miner-argo-blockchain-emerged-unscathed-from-its-ust-stake/,Bitcoin Miner Argo Blockchain Emerged Unscathed From Its UST Stake,The company said it was able to sell its minimal UST stake for around 93 cents per token before the price completely collapsed.,2022-05-18,"Argo Blockchain (ARGO), the mining company that diversified into Web 3 through its Argo Lab subsidiary earlier this year, said on Wednesday it had a stake in UST that wasn’t material and was able to “nearly break-even” on its position during the UST meltdown.
“We weren’t super heavily invested in the Terra ecosystem,” said Argo’s CEO Peter Wall during the company’s first-quarter earnings conference call. “We did have some UST, we were participating in yield generation on the Anchor protocol,” he added.
Argo was one of the first publicly traded crypto mining companies to form a non-mining business unit called “Argo Labs.” The subsidiary was created in January with a goal of diversifying Argo’s business and taking advantage of other opportunities in the blockchain ecosystem. Currently, Argo Lab’s investments include Polkadot's DOT, ether (ETH) and Solana's SOL, according to the company’s first-quarter presentation.
Argo was able to sell its UST positions at 93 cents per token before the price fully collapsed, according to Wall. Most recently, UST was still trading around 10 cents according to CoinDesk’s price index. “Looking back [selling at that level] was a very good move given last time I checked it was trading around 12 cents,” Wall said during the call. “Overall, on a net basis, in the Terra ecosystem, we nearly broke even on our positions, after taking into consideration the yield that we generated through our holdings,” he added.
Last week, Terra’s LUNA token fell 99.7% in value as the U.S. dollar-pegged algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lost its peg and dropped to under 10 cents, causing an outflow in funds from the Terra ecosystem and declining sentiment for the project among the crypto community.
The collapse of the Terra ecosystem has taken a toll on numerous large-scale as well as retail investors. On social media and message boards, former LUNA backers have reported huge losses, despair and hopelessness.
Argo Blockchain reported its first-quarter earnings on Wednesday, in which its net income tumbled but revenue rose year over year, and it reiterated its hashrate guidance of 5.5 exahash per second (EH/s) by the end of 2022. The shares of the miner traded down about 4% in the U.S. on Wednesday, keeping pace with that of other publicly traded crypto miners.
Read more: Bitcoin Miner Argo Blockchain 'Leans Toward' Designing Custom Miners With Intel Chips"
122,166,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/despite-recent-bumps-in-the-road-stablecoins-will-stick-around/,"Despite Recent Bumps in the Road, Stablecoins Will Stick Around",Why institutional investors will again move past digital assets’ volatility and bad headlines.,2022-05-19,"Over the past week, we’ve learned that stablecoins aren’t really all that stable.
The major stablecoin terraUSD – more commonly referred to as UST – officially lost its peg to the U.S. dollar, causing a catastrophic devaluation in its accompanying cryptocurrency, LUNA. Eventually Terra’s blockchain was frozen, it was delisted from most major exchanges, and the luna coin’s value declined to zero.
This week, instability has already been noted in other major stablecoins, notably DAI.
But that doesn’t mean stablecoins themselves are a doomed concept, says Ian Epstein, president of Enigma Securities, a digital broker-dealer serving institutional wealth clients.
“We should talk about what I think of as a stablecoin versus what is really another bad idea dressed up as a stablecoin,” said Epstein. “Terra and some of these other coins may call themselves algorithmic stablecoins, but that’s really more of a fancy word for a leveraged position that purports to be the asset backing for a stablecoin.”
When the leveraged assets can no longer keep up with the stablecoin’s liabilities, the structure collapses.
It’s a scenario familiar to Epstein, who spent a decade of his career as a macro portfolio manager at Autonomy Capital.
“We see emerging markets all the time that have a peg to the U.S. dollar, but where the liabilities of the central bank do not equal the assets side of their balance sheet, their reserves,” said Epstein. “That puts excess pressure on the peg and causes the devaluation of their currency.”
Read More: Tether Cut Commercial Paper Reserve by 17% in Q1, Accountants Say
When Terra’s asset balance tipped too far towards liabilities, it caused the digital economy equivalent of a “run on the bank,” said Epstein. “These were Ponzi-like, poorly structured ideas that remind me of every other failed currency peg historically.”
Terra’s great failure was using non-dollar reserves to defend a dollar peg, according to Epstein, but other stablecoins show more promise for actual stability and staying power.
“The USD coin (or USDC) stablecoin is a money market-like digitization of the dollar run by a company called Circle,” said Epstein. “It’s quite transparent – it is truly a stable stablecoin using technology not to gain things. Circle is not trying to use tractional reserve or leverage. A digital form of the dollar serves a utility function, they’re offering that product and not trying to be overly greedy. They’re playing by the rules as they understand them. That’s a stablecoin.”
Circle uses high-quality short-term paper as an asset to back the USDC token, said Epstein.
From a broker-dealer perspective, Epstein sees the value potential in a stablecoin serving as a transparent, fully backed digitized money market fund. “There’s great transparency and ease in subscribing to it and it provides a great value, as will other true stablecoins similar to USDC that will come about in other currencies over the next six to 12 months.”
Epstein’s institutional clients are also closely scrutinizing the stablecoin space. As interest rates and yields increase, stablecoins’ balance sheets should improve in health.
The incentive to create a true stablecoin as a regulated and transparent entity remains intact despite the negative headlines surrounding stablecoins, said Epstein.
Others, like AdvisorBId founder Brandon Spotswood, think the collapse of Terra and issues with other stablecoins will bring in stricter regulation and may cause central banks to accelerate work on their own digital currencies.
It might be hard to wrap your brain around institutional interest in decentralized finance (DeFi), technology built to disintermediate the financial transactions that have built many of the world’s financial institutions, but Epstein said the interest is there.
Read More: The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto
Institutions are drawn to DeFi by the efficiencies created by smart contracts, which make possible a trustless exchange with no third-party intermediaries ensuring the exchange of assets, and instantaneous settlement of transactions at any time.
“Think about all the economic rents that are derived by firms engaged in that sort of activity, and it was a very important activity, creating trust bridges,” said Epstein. “Now, smart contracts do that for us automatically. Think about how long it takes to settle a transaction, and what percentage of the year the market is open. Everything will now settle instantaneously, markets can function for 100% of the year, and decentralized finance makes it all possible. There’s a lot of value in that, and it has nothing to do with algorithmic stablecoins.”
Along with the stunning collapse of UST and LUNA, the crypto space continues to experience volatile price swings – an issue that may play into the hands of sophisticated investors like the hedge funds, asset managers and other institutions served by Enigma.
These investors are still gearing up their crypto efforts and building investment mandates, said Epstein, and most of them suffered few losses in the recent downdraft as they have yet to put most of their capital to work.
“For major institutions, they’re no more affected in digital assets than they are right now in fixed income, where credit markets have had a difficult run, or in technology, which is also down a fair bit, or in emerging markets which are down as well,” said Epstein. “There are some concerns that the prices and valuations they were looking at previously were going to be difficult to justify. With a repricing of these markets, in some ways it’s to their advantage as they are further along in their aggregation of human intellectual and financial capital to put to work in this space.”
Financial capital moves quickly, said Epstein, especially in frothy markets as it tries to find safety and value. Human capital is more likely to tell the full story.
“Never before have I seen so much human capital aggregated into one space – financial capital always goes into all kinds of things, markets go up and down – but human capital, sheer geniuses moving into a space and thinking about ways to leverage the technology, that is the most important sociocultural phenomenon in digital assets,” said Epstein. “Because of that, institutional interest and adoption will not abate. The price of bitcoin [BTC] is of less importance.”
Read More: LFG Reserves Dwindle to Just 313 Bitcoins From 80K After UST Crash"
123,200,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/19/first-mover-americas-hashed-takes-35b-hit-on-luna-as-bitcoin-trades-under-30k/,First Mover Americas: Hashed Takes $3.5B Hit on LUNA as Bitcoin Trades Under $30K,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 19, 2022.",2022-05-19,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Brad Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off this week.)
Price Point: Bitcoin steadied just below $30,000, though Solana's SOL and Cardano's ADA were nursing bigger losses.
Market Moves: Traditional markets are looking weak, and that's not a good sign for cryptocurrencies, given the strengthening correlations between U.S. stocks and bitcoin – effectively the bellwether for digital-asset markets, Shaurya Malwa reports.
Feature: A crypto wallet linked to the South Korean venture fund Hashed appears to have lost some $3.5 billion in value amid last week's collapse in prices for the Terra blockchain's LUNA tokens, Sam Reynolds reports.
Bitcoin (BTC) was holding steady after a 5.7% drop on Wednesday that took the price back below $30,000 – increasingly a crucial level in the struggle to avoid a deeper sell-off.
The largest cryptocurrency was up 1.4% in the past 24 hours to about $29,427 as of press time. Ether (ETH), the second-biggest, lost 3.6% to $1,956. Solana’s SOL and Cardano’s ADA were nursing bigger losses.
But the mood in traditional markets remains grim, with U.S. stock futures trading lower on growing concerns that higher interest rates and fast-rising inflation will seriously dent the economy. The Wall Street Journal Editorial Board warned of a possible looming crisis in emerging markets, as analysts and economists begin to assess the possibility of mounting debt-payment issues in the face of higher borrowing costs.
By Shaurya Malwa
Waning sentiment around strong economic growth caused the second day of sell-offs in broader markets on Thursday morning.
Asian markets slide following a day of red in U.S. equities, leading to sell-offs in bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies.
The weakness in global markets rose amid fears of lower spending in the coming years as the West ramps up interest rates and tightens monetary policies.
Price movements in cryptocurrencies have lately tracked U.S. traditional markets, with bitcoin trading similar to a risky technology stock. And as fears grow over the precarious state of traditional markets, bitcoin continues to come under pressure.
Inflation is forcing consumers to spend more on food and less on discretionary items, as reported, with Walmart (WMT) cutting profit forecasts on Wednesday, citing higher fuel and worker costs.
U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell has pledged to keep tightening monetary conditions until inflation comes down, with some crypto analysts expecting a further correction in cryptocurrencies should current market conditions continue.
Read More: Solana, Cardano Tokens Slide Over 9% as Cryptos See Weakness Amid Poor US Consumer Data
Curve Finance Proposes to End CRV Token Emissions on All UST Pools On-chain participants are already voting “yes” to end CRV emissions from any liquidity pools involving UST.
Ethereum on Track for Testnet Merge in June The testnet merge would allow developers to work on any potential risks or bugs ahead of Ethereum's move to a proof-of-stake network.
FTX US Debuts Stock Trading in Push for Bigger Slice of US Retail Pie Brokerage accounts can be funded with the stablecoin USDC, the exchange said.
BofA Says Crypto Winter, Contagion Risk Concerns Are Overdone The collapse of the Terra network was due to prioritization of mass adoption over price stability, the bank said.
Nomura’s Digital Division to Focus on Cryptocurrencies First, DeFi Later Phase one of Nomura’s new digital-assets division will include the top 10 cryptocurrencies, with DeFi and NFTs further down the line.
Institutional DeFi Enabler? Data Firm Kaiko Probes DEX Liquidity With New Product The data feed unpacks what’s what in Uniswap, SushiSwap, Curve Finance and Balancer asset pools.
New York Bitcoin Miners Start to Give Up on State Amid Regulatory Uncertainty The state was once a draw for miners, but environmental concerns are weighing on the bitcoin mining industry.
A16z Leads $15M Round for P2E Studio Azra Games The blockchain gaming company is preparing to launch a fantasy collectibles and mass combat role-playing game.
US Appeals Court Orders SEC to Bring Enforcement Actions to Jury Trials The 5th Circuit Court of Appeals found that the targets of SEC enforcement actions had their constitutional rights violated by the use of in-house judges.
How Do You Tax an NFT? Plans to share bitcoin data with foreign tax authorities may be hard to adapt to transparent, decentralized blockchains – but once in place, new rules are hard to shift.
News Analysis: Despite Recent Bumps in the Road, Stablecoins Will Stick Around Why institutional investors will again move past digital assets’ volatility and bad headlines.
By Sam Reynolds
The collapse of the tokens linked to the Terra ecosystem, stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and luna (LUNA), has led to some major investors coming clean and detailing their losses.
Take Hashed, an early-stage venture fund based in Seoul, South Korea. The company played a part in Terra’s 2021 venture round, where it helped raise $25 million, according to Crunchbase data.
“We were immediately impressed with the sophistication of their mechanical design and execution speed,” Hashed wrote about Terra in 2019. “They’ve done a superb job executing: building product, hiring, facilitating and interacting with the community, and more.”
Publicly, Hashed has said that they are “financially sound” and Hashed Ventures has not been affected by the crisis.
But on-chain data shows that the firm had staked over 27 million in LUNA on the Columbus 3 mainnet, 9.7 million in LUNA for the Columbus 4 mainnet, and 13.2 million in LUNA on the current Columbus 5 mainnet. Hashed didn't respond to a request for comment from CoinDesk by press time.
Delphi Digital, a research firm and boutique investor, admitted in a blog post that it always had concerns about the structure of UST and LUNA, but believed that the sizeable assets found in the Luna Foundation Guard would prevent the unthinkable from happening.
“We always knew something like this was possible, and we tried to stress the risks to a system like this in our research and public commentary, but the fact is we miscalculated the risk of a 'death spiral' event coming to fruition. We’ve taken some heat for this over the last week, and we deserve it. The criticism is fair and we accept it,” the firm wrote.
Read More: Hashed Wallet Takes $3.5B Hit, Delphi Discloses Loss After Terra Collapse
Today’s newsletter was edited by Brad Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
124,315,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/19/first-mover-asia-kucoin-plans-to-bolster-defi-activity-on-its-blockchain-after-150m-raise-cryptos-gain/,First Mover Asia: KuCoin Plans to Bolster DeFi Activity on Its Blockchain After $150M Raise; Cryptos Gain,The crypto exchange will add technical features to support developers and build on KuCoin's public blockchain; bitcoin outperforms ether.,2022-05-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin recovers somewhat; most other cryptos are in the green.
Insights: KuCoin will use part of its $150 million capital raise to increase DeFi activity on its blockchain.
Technician's take: BTC appears oversold, although trading conditions have been choppy over the past few days.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,185 +4.4%
Ether (ETH): 2,011 +3.6%
Bitcoin posts a small recovery
As improvement goes, bitcoin didn't have much to crow about on Thursday. The largest cryptocurrency was still struggling to remain above $30,000, and well off where it was trading as little as two weeks ago.
But the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization did a little better than ether and other major altcoins.
Bitcoin was recently changing hands at around $30,200, up more than 4.4% over the past 24 hours. The increase outperformed ether, which rose a little more than 3.5% during the same period, and other cryptos, most of which also registered smaller gains as investors continued to prefer the best-known digital asset over smaller, riskier ones. XRP, SOL, ADA and MATIC rose less than a percentage point. AVAX was among the losers, recently dropping more than 3%.
Still, the flavor of the market remained sour with investors continuing to chew on the triple whammy of inflationary pressures, central bank missteps and the looming prospect of recession. Altcoins have largely trailed bitcoin amid the mushrooming economic uncertainty in recent months. For the past 90 days, only 15% of the top 50 altcoins have outperformed bitcoin, according to the Blockchain Center, a provider of crypto data. The trend reflects the current risk-off environment.
Gold, a traditionally safe haven for risk-averse investors, rose by more than a percentage point.
Equity markets? They fared a little worse than cryptos but improved on their previous day's bloodbath. The S&P 500 fell by less than a percentage point after finishing Wednesday with its largest percentage decline since June 2020. The index's 18% tumble from its most recent high remains perilously close to the 20% drop that merits bear market designation. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, which reached bear market status earlier this year, fell slightly on Thursday.
Stocks' big plunge on Wednesday reflected disappointing first quarter sales by retail giants Target (TGT) and Walmart (WMT). On Thursday, Kohl's (KSS), the largest department store chain by number of locations, added to the retail sector's woes with its own downbeat report and provided the latest evidence of inflation's growing impact on consumer spending. Meanwhile, U.S. home sales fell last month, a sign that higher mortgage rates triggered by the U.S. Federal Reserve's more hawkish monetary policy, along with record high prices, was slowing the once hot-housing market.
""Results from Walmart and Target this week have brought into sharp focus the plight facing companies and consumers as inflation begins to bite,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst, U.K. & EMEA, Craig Erlam wrote in an email. ""Inflation is catching up and profit margins are taking a hit. Soon enough, though, those higher costs will be passed on and consumers will start being more careful with their spending. There's a feeling of inevitability about the economy, the question is whether we're going to see a slowdown or a recession.""
Yet, Erlam struck a positive note about bitcoin remaining at the $30,000 level. Bitcoin is holding up surprisingly well against the backdrop of pessimism in the markets,"" Erlam wrote. ""Perhaps because it's fueled by economic concern rather than simply interest rates.""
He added: ""Whether it can continue to swim against the sentiment tide, time will tell.""
S&P 500: 3,900 -0.5%
DJIA: 31,253 -0.7%
Nasdaq: 11,388 -0.2%
Gold: 1,842 +1.4%
KuCoin to increase DeFi activity
Seychelles-based crypto exchange KuCoin will devote part of its recent $150 million raise to expand technical features and support developers building on the KuCoin Community Chain (KCC), a public blockchain, the firm told CoinDesk.
“We know the difficulties and obstacles that developer teams have in their initial stage of development,” a spokesperson for KuCoin said. “Therefore, we will devote more resources to discovering and supporting high-quality developers and early innovative projects.”
KuCoin did not provide the exact figures it would use to encourage developer growth. However, KCC will move to a cross-chain model that supports applications from multiple blockchains and build a layer 2 system that allows for faster transactions at a lower fee. Layer 2 refers to a secondary protocol built on top of an existing network
Funding development efforts could help bolster falling demand for KCC. Data from explorers show Thursday saw just 19,000 transactions on the network compared to over 60,000 in early May.
The move is similar to developer funds raised by the likes of crypto projects Fantom, Near and Avalanche in the past year to encourage activity on their blockchain and the building of newer decentralized applications (dapps). Fantom committed $315 million, Near raised $350 million, while Avalanche launched a $220 million ""crypto growth"" fund.
KuCoin is the fifth-largest crypto exchange by trading volume, CoinGecko data shows. The firm saw a 1,503% year-over-year growth in new users from Asia, who made up a large part of its daily trading volume.
The exchange raised $150 million earlier this month at a valuation of $10 billion in a round led by Jump Crypto.
Bitcoin Returns Above $30K, Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) held short-term support above $27,500 as buyers reacted to oversold conditions on the charts. The cryptocurrency could face resistance at $35,000, which is where the current downtrend accelerated earlier this month.
BTC briefly traded above $30,000 during the New York trading day and was up by as much as 3% over the past 24 hours.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, which could keep short-term buyers active. Further, short-term momentum is improving, similar to what occurred in early March, which preceded a brief relief rally in price.
A countertrend reversal signal, per the DeMARK indicators, appeared on BTC's daily chart on May 12 alongside major equity indices. That suggests a relief rally in speculative assets could delay additional breakdowns in price.
Still, BTC will need to register a weekly close above $30,000 (and above 4,000 for the S&P 500) to confirm short-term bullish signals. For now, upside appears to be limited because of negative momentum signals on the weekly and monthly charts.
Veecon conference around Web 3 and culture
G7 finance ministers meeting
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): People's Bank of China interest rate decision.
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
MakerDAO Founder on DAI vs UST, 21Shares Enters US Market
MakerDAO founder Rune Christensen joined ""First Mover"" to share his take on the fallout of terraUSD (UST) and how DAI is different from other stablecoins. 21Shares co-founder Ophelia Snyder explained how her firm's two crypto index funds could provide benefits for U.S. customers in a volatile market. Plus, Dan Gunsberg of Hxro provided crypto markets insights.
Do Kwon Pushes On-Chain Proposal Live Even as 92% Vote 'No' in Online Poll: The plan to put Terra back on track after last week’s implosion includes a hard fork of the existing network.
Nomura’s Digital Division to Focus on Cryptocurrencies First, DeFi Later: Phase one of Nomura’s new digital-assets division will include the top 10 cryptocurrencies, with DeFi and NFTs further down the line.
A16z Leads $15M Round for P2E Studio Azra Games: The blockchain gaming company is preparing to launch a fantasy collectibles and mass combat roleplaying game.
Solana, Cardano Tokens Slide Over 9% as Cryptos See Weakness Amid Poor US Consumer Data: Bitcoin lost support at $30,000 as Chinese technology stocks sold off on Thursday amid earnings worries a day after hawkish comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve.
FTX US Debuts Stock Trading in Push for Bigger Slice of US Retail Pie: Brokerage accounts can be funded with the stablecoin USDC, the exchange said.
Let Terra Die: Do Kwon's proposal to fork the failed stablecoin network isn't what LUNA holders want, nor will it help them.
Today's crypto explainer: How Do You Tax an NFT?
Other voices: The Crypto Crash Feels Amazing (The Atlantic)
“Certainly the economic outlook globally is challenging and uncertain. Higher food and energy prices are having stagflationary effects, namely, depressing output and spending and raising inflation all around the world.” (Janet Yellen, prior to G-7 finance ministers meeting) ... ""Eight companies are to blame for nearly half the stock market’s decline this year – and the pain doesn’t end there."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""The Biden administration is developing plans to further choke Russia’s oil revenues with the long-term goal of destroying the country’s central role in the global energy economy, current and former U.S. officials say. ... The proposed measures include imposing a price cap on Russian oil, backed by so-called secondary sanctions, which would punish foreign buyers that do not comply with U.S. restrictions by blocking them from doing business with American companies and those of partner nations."" (The New York Times)"
125,124,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/20/uk-regulator-to-consider-terra-coins-collapse-in-new-crypto-rules-report/,UK Regulator to Consider Terra Coins’ Collapse in New Crypto Rules: Report,"Market instability in stablecoins will need to be taken into account, the FCA's executive director for markets said.",2022-05-20,"The U.K.'s financial regulator and its finance ministry, the Treasury, will scrutinize the collapse of the Terra ecosystem's crypto tokens while creating new rules for crypto assets, Bloomberg reported on Friday.
Recent market instability in stablecoins “will absolutely need to be taken into account” when the Financial Conduct Authority works with the Treasury to create the rules later this year, Sarah Pritchard, the FCA's executive director for markets, told Bloomberg.
On May 13, Terra's UST algorithmic stablecoin slumped as low as 23 cents, and the LUNA token, created to prevent the UST algorithmic stablecoin from being volatile, fell 96% at one point. An algorithmic stablecoin is one that in theory maintains its peg using only software and rules, meaning it is not necessarily backed by collateral. Instead, the token’s programming, or smart contract, can increase supply if the price is falling or reduce supply if the price is increasing.
""Recent events in crypto asset markets have highlighted the need for appropriate regulation to help mitigate consumer, market integrity and financial stability risks,"" a spokesperson at the Treasury said. ""The government will continue to work with the regulators to address these risks as it develops its legislative approach.""
In March, the U.K. said it will work on a new crypto regulatory package and planned to regulate stablecoins. In its consultation, the government proposed that algorithmic stablecoins should not be regulated.
The FCA were not immediately available to comment when contacted by CoinDesk on Friday.
Read more: UK Crypto Industry Hopes for More Clarity From Planned Stablecoin Rules
UPDATE ( May 20, 11:45 UTC): Adds Treasury comments."
126,108,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/20/dai-creator-rune-christensen-on-terras-collapse/,Dai Creator Rune Christensen on Terra's Collapse,"The MakerDAO founder said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” that he wasn’t in the mood to say “I told you so,” following Terra’s stablecoin collapse.",2022-05-20,"The founder of one so-called decentralized stablecoin thinks Terra’s collapse is a wake-up call for anyone who hasn’t already seen the inherent risks in another kind of stablecoins – uncollateralized, algorithmic stablecoins.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Rune Christensen, a Danish entrepreneur who founded MakerDAO, also said the crypto industry should enforce strict standards for stablecoins – like collateral requirements – to prevent another financial crisis like the implosion of UST, which erased $40 billion of the coin’s value in less than a week.
It might be convenient for Christensen to say that. His stablecoin platform, which went live in 2014, and which is now overseen by a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), has always required that users put up real capital if they want to mint its token, dai, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar.
“The natural end point is that algorithmic stablecoins are … collateralized, because that’s the only way you can protect your users,” Christensen said Thursday on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover.”
Read more: UST Won't Be the End of Algorithmic Stablecoins | The Node
MakerDAO was the first Ethereum-based tool that allowed anyone to mint dollar proxies by collateralizing their crypto. For every dai in circulation, there is roughly double the amount of crypto held in reserve.
Terra, on the other hand, tried a different model. Instead of holding assets in reserve, it used an algorithm and a related free-floating cryptocurrency called LUNA to try to keep its synthetic dollar asset, UST, in line. Like all other “algorithmic stablecoins,” UST met a catastrophic end.
Christensen said it was obvious for others in the community that Terra would collapse long before it did.
“It was completely clear and sort of common knowledge that this model just didn’t work,” Christensen said.
That didn’t stop Terra’s founder Do Kwon from attacking Maker and its stablecoin, at one point even making the grand claim that “By my hand $DAI will die.” About a month after he made that statement, at about the pinnacle of Terra’s success, Kwon’s network entered its fated “death spiral.”
According to Christensen, Terra functioned like a Ponzi scheme. It was a project that benefited from prices shooting up, mass speculation and Kwon's braggadocio. Eventually, all massive booms must bust.
""The people in the community that were subjected to this have created some kind of community bond and intangible value that goes beyond the economics of the system,"" he said.
Christensen said that although he was expecting Terra to collapse, he was devastated when it actually happened.
“I wasn’t exactly in the mood to say ‘I told you so.’ It was a human tragedy,” he said.
The fault clearly lies with Terra and its managers, primarily the bombastic Kwon. Terra’s leadership hid risks and built products meant to intentionally lure in investors, like the Anchor Protocol, which offered an unsustainable 20% return on UST holdings.
“They were using services that were giving them a high return and then was hiding the fact of where they were getting that from,” Christensen said.
Terra’s collapse may have a prolonged fallout, and users may become concerned about investing in any stablecoin backed by volatile assets – like dai.
In dai’s case, the currency is overcollateralized, directly backed by ether (ETH), USD coin (USDC) and other cryptocurrencies.
“Nobody needs to trust anybody. You can check for yourself that all the collateral is there,” he said, noting the advantages of the blockchain.
Other stablecoins managed by corporate entities, like USDC, offer transparency through regular disclosures and may appear to be a simpler choice. He also said that tether, a controversial centralized stablecoin, is “probably sound.”
A new proposal to fork the Terra blockchain to try a different approach including adding collateral and other fail safes may point to a bigger message about community resiliency and bonding, but the sentiment may be a little too late.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
“There’s a risk it isn’t going to work because … of political fracturing,” Christensen said. He added that a plan to redistribute Terra’s remaining treasury assets to small holders has been fraught with indecision and mismanagement.
“No matter what the community attempts to do, the main objective should be to reimburse the UST holders,” he said. He added that some so-called lunatics may suffer from a “sort of Stockholm Syndrome,” but that may itself point to the “inherent resilience and value of decentralized communities.”
None of this is to say algorithmic stablecoins are dead. But a safer option might be to treat them a little bit more like traditional financial assets. When it comes to regulating algorithmic stablecoins, Christensen could eventually see a point when issuers must meet a threshold collateral requirement, like banks. Or Maker."
127,65,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/20/its-not-just-luna-terras-defi-apps-have-hemmorhaged-28b/,It’s Not Just LUNA. Terra’s DeFi Apps Have Hemorrhaged $28B,Investors have largely exited the Terra ecosystem – now evident in DeFi protocols on the blockchain – and analysts remain skeptical about its long-term prospects.,2022-05-20,"In the two weeks since Terra's U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lost its peg, causing massive investor losses, billions of dollars have been taken out of the ecosystem.
Data from trackers show funds held in decentralized finance (DeFi) applications built on Terra have slumped to $155 million in locked value as of Friday morning, a level last seen in February 2021, from more than $29 billion at the start of this month. Locked value on Terra DeFi peaked at $30 billion in early April.
The declines came as UST lost its 1:1 peg against the U.S. dollar amid a broader slump in markets. That created a death spiral as investors exchanged UST for other stablecoins, sending the Terra token to as low as 4 cents on May 14.
“Experiencing significant losses, or seeing others take significant losses – at no fault of their own – is probably one of the fastest ways for a protocol or blockchain in this space to lose the trust of the community,” Simon Furlong, co-founder of Geode Finance, told CoinDesk in an email.
As widely reported, much of the lost value was on the lending protocol Anchor, which took the biggest hit, the data show. It held more than $17 billion on May 6 and locked up just over $106 million on Friday – a drop of over 99%. Anchor was home to Terra’s infamous “stable yields,” where investors could lock up their UST to earn about 19% on a yearly basis.
“UST’s fall rendered Terra’s most popular protocol, Anchor, effectively useless,” Furlong said. “Nobody is interested in earning rewards on a stablecoin that is trending toward $0.”
Market observers had previously raised red flags about Anchor’s yield, with critics calling it unsustainable. That didn’t deter investors from piling in over $16 billion from July 2021 to early May.
Other apps show similar percentage declines. Lido, which pays out daily rewards on staked assets, saw a $7 billion plunge in value, while automated exchange Astroport and lending app Mars Protocol saw a combined $1.2 billion decline in total value locked (TVL).
Owing to the way UST operates, the price of the associated luna (LUNA) token fell as much as 99.7% in less than a week. One UST can be redeemed or minted for exactly $1 worth of LUNA at any time, a mechanism that's meant to keep UST stable by using market forces to alter the supply and price of LUNA to match demand.
As a result, when UST fell, excess LUNA was minted to try and maintain its peg. This time it failed to revive UST as sentiment for the tokens among crypto investors declined.
The slump has caused some of the biggest investment firms within the crypto market to suffer massive losses. On-chain data shows South Korea’s Hashed lost some $3.5 billion, while Delphi lost at least 13% of its funds under management.
Terra backers Galaxy Digital and Three Arrows Capital have also been affected, although the firms have not publicly provided figures.
While Terra developers have put a revival plan in place to recover the ecosystem and ensure long-term growth, some analysts say a lack of trust remains.
“Traders and investors suffered tremendous losses and doubt management’s actions that followed the UST unpegging,” said Anton Gulin, regional director at crypto exchange AAX, in a Telegram chat. “Anything incoming from Luna’s team may be treated in the same way as the lack of trust prevails.”
Terra developers are proposing a hard fork of the network – which would create a separate, new blockchain – as part of the revival. The community is apparently not on board, however: Results of an online preliminary poll this week saw 92% of responders vote “no” to the proposed change.
“Trust has been lost, but in the event of compensation for losses and a return of funds, there are chances for its restoration,” KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu told CoinDesk in an email. ""If the ecosystem and the team can handle the recovery process wisely, this will be a positive signal not only for project investors but also for new users and the entire market.”"
128,181,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/20/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-heads-for-record-8-week-losing-streak/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Heads for Record 8-Week Losing Streak,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 20, 2022.",2022-05-20,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Brad Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off this week.)
Price point: Bitcoin has so far avoided a steeper tumble below the $30,000 level, but it's still poised to extend its losing streak to a record eight weeks.
Market Moves: Data from the bitcoin options market shows traders are leaning bearish, Shaurya Malwa reports.
Feature: The collapse in LUNA tokens were only part of the story. Crypto traders are rushing for the exits from DeFi apps on the Terra blockchain, Malwa reports.
By one measure, cryptocurrency markets are going through their worst-ever stretch – and it's not over yet.
Bitcoin (BTC) has slid 3.2% since Sunday, poised to extend an already-at-a-record seven-week losing sreak.
It's notable the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has showed resilience around the $30,000 price level. But it sure hasn't staged much of a recovery since last week's full-blown sell-off in the wake of the stunning collapse of the Terra blockchain and its LUNA token.
Bitcoin at one point fell to nearly $24,000 but as of press time was changing hands around $30,300. There hasn't been much relief on the economic front, where growing concerns over a U.S. recession are colliding with a Federal Reserve that says it's determined to tamp down fast-rising inflation even as U.S. stocks appear poised to enter a bear market.
The cryptocurrency's correlation with stocks has strengthened recently – partly because so many traditional investors are now trading it – so bitcoin is likely to face ongoing pressure from any tightening of financial conditions.
For what it's worth, the Wall Street firm Goldman Sachs (GS) put out a report predicting that the recent plunge in cryptocurrency prices won't in and of itself create much of a drag on the economy.
Even so, regulators are showing greater concern about the growing risks from crypto. A statement released by the G-7 called for tougher rules to counter money laundering and disclose reserves, after the collapse of stablecoin terraUSD last week, CoinDesk's Jack Schickler reported Friday.
In traditional markets, U.S. stock futures pointed to gains when the market opens on Friday, after China cut a key lending rate – a form of economic stimulus.
By Shaurya Malwa
Activity on bitcoin (BTC) options suggests rising bearish sentiment among investors.
The asset’s price movements have been highly correlated to the U.S. markets in the past few months, with poor earnings reports and hawkish comments from the Federal Reserve showing an impact on bitcoin prices. Investors are placing bets accordingly.
Put/call ratios for bitcoin open interest hit a 12-month high of 0.72 Thursday, research firm Delphi said in a note Friday, adding that the data indicated “bearish sentiment among investors.” Similar ratio levels were reached last May. (A put option is, generally speaking, a bet on a price decline, while a call option is a bet on upside.)
“The put/call ratio measures the amount of put buying relative to calls,” Delphi analysts explained in the note. “A high put/call ratio indicates that investors are speculating whether bitcoin will continue to sell off, or it could mean investors are hedging their portfolios against a downward move.”
“Last April, the put/call ratio traded as high as 0.96 before Bitcoin’s price dropped over 50% in May 2021,” the firm added.
Read More: Bitcoin Options Data Suggests Bearish Sentiment Among Investors
Regulate Ledgers and Not Individual Crypto Providers, BIS Study Says To make cross-border payments easier, you need to change your whole way of thinking, the authors of the BIS study found.
Goldman Sees Little US Economic Impact From Lower Cryptocurrency Prices The stock market decline has had a much larger effect on U.S. household net worth, the bank said.
UK Regulator to Consider Terra Coins Collapse in New Crypto Rules: Report Market instability in stablecoins will need to be taken into account, the FCA's executive director for markets said.
Bitcoin Options Data Suggests Bearish Sentiment Among Investors Put/call ratio for bitcoin options reached yearly highs on Thursday, data shows.
By Shaurya Malwa
In the two weeks since Terra's U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin terraUSD (UST) lost its peg, causing massive investor losses, billions of dollars have been taken out of the ecosystem.
Data from trackers show funds held in decentralized finance (DeFi) applications built on Terra have slumped to $155 million in locked value as of Friday morning, a level last seen in February 2021, from more than $29 billion at the start of this month. Locked value on Terra DeFi peaked at $30 billion in early April.
The declines came as UST lost its 1:1 peg against the U.S. dollar amid a broader slump in markets. That created a death spiral as investors exchanged UST for other stablecoins, sending the LUNA token to as low as 4 cents on May 14.
“Experiencing significant losses, or seeing others take significant losses – at no fault of their own – is probably one of the fastest ways for a protocol or blockchain in this space to lose the trust of the community,” Simon Furlong, co-founder of Geode Finance, told CoinDesk in an email.
Link to full story: It’s Not Just LUNA. Terra’s DeFi Apps Have Hemmorhaged $28B
Today’s newsletter was edited by Brad Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
129,256,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/21/regulators-are-paying-attention-to-ust/,Regulators Are Paying Attention to UST,The collapse of terraUSD (UST) is algorithmic stablecoins’ Libra moment.,2022-05-21,"Luna collapsed, terraUSD collapsed and this is now going to be a Big Thing. I would go so far as to say that UST’s collapse, as dramatic as it was, will have a legacy similar to Libra’s.
PSA: I’ll be in Davos, Switzerland, covering the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting next week, so next week’s edition will be a recap. Going to be in town? Come say hi.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
Regulators and lawmakers are looking at the collapse of terraUSD (UST) as a question of whether esoteric products, such as algorithmic stablecoins, are safe for crypto investors as well as whether there are broader financial stability concerns with them.
The introduction of the Libra stablecoin project led to, years later, multiple regulatory approaches and the certainty that sooner or later, governments will have rules in place for how stablecoins can operate. However, all of these efforts have focused on asset-backed stablecoins, not algorithmic stablecoins. The novel structures here might result in new approaches from regulators. The major difference? Libra never launched, and there haven’t been any asset-backed stablecoin collapses the way there was with UST. That difference may lead to regulators placing a higher priority on this issue.
In June 2019, social media giant Facebook unveiled its long-awaited cryptocurrency project, Libra. Despite assurances from the company that it was not seeking to take over global payments or create a non-U.S. dollar-based financial system, regulators pushed back strongly against the project.
They were largely successful, too: Libra later rebranded as Diem, scaled back its vision to a fraction of what was originally intended and still ended up selling off its assets and shutting down.
Even though the project never launched, the regulatory impact was massive. Regulators worldwide suddenly saw stablecoins as a huge issue they needed to pay attention to.
The collapse of terraUSD (UST) is algorithmic stablecoins’ Libra moment. Regulators are all of a sudden paying close attention to algo stables generally, and UST and luna in particular.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen brought up Terra independently twice last week during separate Congressional hearings on the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC).
“I think you've just illustrated that we just had this last week with Terra, and with tether in illustration of the risks associated with stablecoins, that there can be runs. And we've seen this historically with private monies, and we invented a good regulatory framework, I think for dealing with this, [we’re] going to try to solve the depository [framework],” Yellen said.
Moreover, she later made it clear that she isn’t saying UST is exactly like Tether: “it depends on the backing of the stablecoin. Terra is algorithmic and doesn't really have a backing as such.”
It doesn’t seem that the FSOC, a group of regulators tasked with maintaining the economic stability of the U.S., is going to take a look at this, suggesting they don't see this as being very significant on a macro scale, though individual regulators may have more pointed concerns.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Rohit Chopra told Bloomberg this week that the collapse of Terra is showing people that a stablecoin is not “as good as a dollar.”
“Stablecoins are something that all the regulators are looking at. Most stablecoin use right now is really for speculative trading in and out of cryptocurrencies. Many are wondering if it’s one day going to be used for consumer payments, but many think it’s not ready yet,” he said.
Potential regulations will likely focus on how the stablecoins – and other cryptocurrencies – are being used.
Notably, this is one of the first times Chopra has spoken about cryptocurrencies since taking on the role of CFPB director last year.
Lawmakers in the U.S. have also been asking regulators about UST and luna – it’s even come up during confirmation hearings for new regulators.
Meanwhile, rumors abound that South Korea’s parliament may try to bring Terra creator Do Kwon in for a hearing, while law enforcement entities are probing the collapse as a possible Ponzi or other criminal enterprise.
The question remains, just what will regulators actually do? So far there isn’t a clear answer. Everyone seems to agree that algorithmic stablecoins are their own thing, distinct from reserve-backed stablecoins. Fewer individuals seem to have opinions on how that translates into clear regulation or guardrails, however.
We continue with the status quo.
How Not to Run a Cryptocurrency Exchange: Japan’s Liquid exchange seems to have been a poorly managed, chaotic company. This in-depth report is worth your time. To quote from the report, “Sources say that executives downplayed some information security breaches, did not disclose others, failed to adequately address low-level insider theft and prematurely stopped investigations into last year’s $90 million hack.”
(Protos) Former Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) director William Hinman received “millions of dollars in retirement benefits” from his former law firm, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, which is also a member of the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, Protos reports.
(The Block) El Salvador President Nayib Bukele tweeted that around 40 central bankers would talk bitcoin at a conference hosted in the nation. It seems the central bankers were actually in town for finance conferences, one of which did not mention bitcoin at all.
(Politico) Here’s a fairly explain-like-I'm-10 explanation of what happened last week with Terra.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
130,197,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/22/first-mover-asia-terras-difficult-post-collapse-path-vcs-backing-away-regulators-jumping-on-stablecoins/,"First Mover Asia: Terra's Difficult Post-Collapse Path: VCs Backing Away, Regulators Jumping on Stablecoins",Some investors see salvageable pieces in the rubble while others are bemoaning their involvement and want to forget the protocol ever existed; bitcoin edges up in weekend trading.,2022-05-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin gains slightly in weekend trading but can't break much beyond $30,000; ether and other major cryptos are in the green.
Insights: Terra's post-collapse path will be difficult.
Technician's take: BTC is roughly flat over the past week. Technical signals suggest a neutral to bearish outlook.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $30,376 +3.3%
Ether (ETH): $2,044 +3.6%
Bitcoin and major cryptos post small gains
Bitcoin, ether and most other major cryptos improved a little over the weekend.
Compared to earlier in the week, they could brag. But in the larger picture, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was still deep in a bear market with no end in sight, and struggling to hover above the $30,000 support line it has held for the past 10 days.
BTC was recently trading at approximately $30,370, a roughly 3.3% rise from its ending point Friday. Ether, the second largest crypto by market cap, was up similarly over the same period and holding just over $2,000 – its perch for much of the past few weeks. AVAX was among the big winners, recently rising more than 8%. SOL and TRX were both up over 5%.
""Bitcoin managed to retain the support levels it found last week and even attempted range breakouts,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital wrote to CoinDesk. ""However, $31K-$32K remains a strong resistance level [that] Bitcoin needs to successfully breach before we can look toward more upside.""
Investors alarmed by central banking missteps to tame inflation, the ongoing economic fall-out from Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the increasing likelihood of recession have veered away from riskier assets, including digital currencies and stocks since last fall.
To be sure, equity markets ended their Friday with a surge, but all that did was help the S&P 500 escape the bear market territory where it lingered for much of the day. The S&P, which bitcoin has tracked increasingly in recent months, closed flat after spending the morning and afternoon in the red. Indices earn bear market designation when they are off 20% from their previous highs. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, which crypto markets have tracked increasingly, rallied late to also hold its ground from the previous day, as did The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). Still, the DJIA declined for the eighth consecutive week, its longest weekly losing streak since the Great Depression. Each of the indices fell 2.9% or more for the week.
Tech stocks have led the ongoing declines with Apple and Meta Platform's (formerly Facebook) share price dropping 22% and 42% since the start of the year. But the retail sector, which fueled a large part of the economic recovery in 2021 and early 2022, has now also showed signs of weakening with Walmart, Target and Kohl's underperforming on their most recent earnings. ""Households are feeling the effects of higher prices everywhere,"" First Republic Bank said in a note to investors, adding that ""markets will remain under pressure with significant bouts of equity and bond volatility persisting as investors digest a regime shift toward tighter policy intended to slow inflation.""
DiPasquale noted cautiously that crypto markets ""had yet to see strong buying action, the kind that is typically indicative of a proper reversal,"" and that BitBull has ""plans for both positive and negative price action from here.""
S&P 500: 3,901 +0.01%
DJIA: 31,261 +0.02%
Nasdaq: 11,354 -0.3%
Gold: $1,846 +0.2%
Terra's difficult post-collapse path
As the rubble is swept up after Terra’s collapse, some investors are sorting through it for pieces on which to rebuild, while other investors are posting mea culpas or trying to back away from the project entirely. At the same time, experts are warning that regulators will use this implosion as a need for comprehensive stablecoin regulation.
On Terra’s governance proposal portal, 80% of eligible token holders that voted are pushing to rebuild the protocol — minus the algorithmic component.
Terra’s dozen or so investors have plenty of incentive to support this. The losses from their gamble on the protocol are astronomical.
Galaxy Digital’s (GLXY.TO) Mike Novogratz has spoken about the need for a post-LUNA redemption cycle. Delphi Digital said it “always knew something like this was possible..[but] miscalculated the risk of a 'death spiral.'” Hashed has stayed silent about its gargantuan loss.
DeFiance Capital, another investor, briefly removed the LUNA logo from its website (the Internet Wayback Machine says that happened after May 9), though founding partner Arthur Cheong said that “it was removed accidentally when we redesigned the layout, and it will be added back.” Convenient timing, indeed, and nothing like Three Arrow Capital’s Su Zhu deleting boosterish tweets for the Terra ecosystem because of a misclick.
When the rubble clears, what’s going to happen? Regulation, says Yves Longchamp, the head of research at Swiss digital asset bank SEBA.
“I have always been skeptical about algorithmic stablecoins. At SEBA we don’t offer any algorithmic stablecoins; I believe you can’t create stability out of the blue,” he told CoinDesk in an interview. “You need to have an underlying asset.”
Longchamp thinks that if stablecoins are here to stay, regulation is a must because there were some UST holders that had good faith in the project and were not aware of the underlying risks.
Regulators should discourage the use of algorithmically backed stablecoins, he says, by giving ones with sound backing a green light via a regulatory framework.
After all, with USDC, it's well known what’s behind it. Stablecoin tether (USDT) has worked so far because the redemption requests for USDT have been successful, but it's still unclear what’s behind it.
But with algorithmic stablecoins like UST, the problem, he says, is that dollars are created at no cost. It's not like USDC where you park a dollar to issue a dollar.
Decentralized finance (DeFi) and “stablecoins are right now going through what has been learned in the 19th century in the banking system, which at the end of the day, led to the rise of central banking,” he said.
But while banks like SEBA welcome regulation, and it would have likely prevented Do Kwon from imploding the market and forcing regulators down on the ecosystem, is this what the industry wants? Will venture capitalists, as hurt as they are with the hit on their balance sheets, think regulation gets in the way of their 100x returns?
Bitcoin Drifts Lower, Support at $25K-$27K
Bitcoin (BTC) continues to struggle around the lower end of a yearlong trading range. The cryptocurrency could find support at $25,000 and $27,000, although there is risk of additional breakdowns in price.
BTC was down by as much as 4% on Friday and is roughly flat over the past week. Recent returns reflect choppy trading conditions with no sense of direction.
Momentum signals remain mixed despite oversold conditions on the charts. That suggests a neutral to bearish outlook over the next few days.
Lower support is seen at the 200-week moving average, which is currently at $21,954. A break below that level would yield a downside target toward $17,673, which would be a 74% drop from the all-time high of nearly $69,000 achieved last November. Bitcoin fell 83% peak-to-trough in the 2018 bear market.
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) hearing on crypto assets and common tax reporting standards
World Economic Forum
8:30 HKT/SGT(12:30 UTC): Chicago Fed national activity index (April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Tron’s Justin Sun Talks USDD in Wake of LUNA & UST Meltdown, Bitcoin Data Shows Bearish Sentiment Among Investors
Following Terra LUNA and UST's collapse, controversial crypto entrepreneur Justin Sun joined ""First Mover"" to share his take on algorithmic stablecoins and thoughts on Tron's stablecoin USDD. Plus, Lily Zhang of Huobi provided insights on China's crypto market, and Felix Honigwachs of Xchange Monster had an update from ""Crypto Valley"" in Switzerland as the World Economic Forum kicks off in Davos.
The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA: A detailed timeline of Terra's journey from its underdog start as a payments app in South Korea to a $60 billion crypto ecosystem to one of the biggest failures in crypto.
It’s Not Just LUNA. Terra’s DeFi Apps Have Hemorrhaged $28B: Investors have largely exited the Terra ecosystem – now evident in DeFi protocols on the blockchain – and analysts remain skeptical about its long-term prospects.
Former BitMEX CEO Arthur Hayes Sentenced to 2 Years Probation: Hayes pleaded guilty to one count of violating the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) in February, and faced a sentence of up to 12 months in prison.
Bitcoin Options Data Suggests Bearish Sentiment Among Investors: Put/call ratio for bitcoin options reached yearly highs on Thursday, data shows.
Goldman Sees Little US Economic Impact From Lower Cryptocurrency Prices: The stock market decline has had a much larger effect on U.S. household net worth, the bank said.
Coinbase Co-Founder Fred Ehrsam Buys the Dip, Purchases $75M of Company Stock: The buys were made via venture capital firm Paradigm, of which Ehrsam is a co-founder and managing partner.
Ryder Ripps, Bored Apes and 'Owning' an NFT
Today's crypto explainer: Why We Need Crypto Payments to Work
Other voices: What Is Happening to the People Falling for Crypto and NFTs (The New York Times)
""But after investors watched hundreds of billions of dollars disappear in a sell-off this month, those famous boosters now face intensifying criticism that they helped drive vulnerable fans to invest in crypto without emphasizing the risks. Unlike clothes or snacks or many other products hawked by celebrities, the crypto market is volatile and rife with scams."" (The New York Times) ... ""[M]y obsession with the latest walk to earn scheme has me outside in the rain at 7:30 pm i need help."" (Meltem Demirors/Twitter) ... ""Even with the most recent market turbulence this year, the S&P 500 was still up about 75% from its 2020 low, as of May 20. Bear markets are rarely that brief. The underpinnings of a new bull market can’t be laid until people are so convinced that stocks can’t rise that the market finally begins to perk up. The bear market between 2007 and 2009 spanned 517 days (including non-trading days), according to Yardeni Research Inc. The prior bear market from 2000 to 2002 lasted 929 days."" (The Wall Street Journal)"
131,169,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/23/first-mover-asia-funds-lost-billions-in-the-terra-collapse-here-are-the-ongoing-effects-bitcoin-sees-red/,First Mover Asia: Funds Lost Billions in the Terra Collapse. Here are the Ongoing Effects; Bitcoin Sees Red,"When a fund suffers a major dent to its token, the impact reverberates widely throughout the venture funding eco-system; most major cryptos fell despite gains in U.S. equity markets.",2022-05-23,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: While stocks had a good day, bitcoin and other major cryptos continued to struggle.
Insights: The effects of the Terra collapse will continue to ripple through the investment eco-system.
Technician's take: A brief relief bounce is likely, similar to what occurred in late February and late March.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,137 -3.9%
Ether (ETH): $1,972 -3.5%
Stocks rise but cryptos fall
What happened to correlation?
While stocks spiked in Monday trading, major cryptocurrencies continued their recent trudge through a red gloom.
By early afternoon, bitcoin had fallen almost 4% over the past 24 hours to the low end of the $29,000-$30,000 range it has occupied for the nearly two weeks since the UST stablecoin and LUNA token that supports it imploded. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, has dropped 26% from its high this month near $40,000 and roughly 55% since reaching its record peak last November. Ether, the second largest crypto by market cap, was down approximately 3.5% over the same period and changing hands a little below $2,000.
Most major cryptos spent much of the day in the red with AVAX recently off over 8% and GALA, ALGO and MANA each down more than 6% amid ongoing investor fears about inflation and a possible recession as central banks tighten monetary policy. Trading was choppy underlining these concerns.
""We don't have earnings [this week}, we haven't had a stablecoin lose $48 billion, and we haven't had a Presidential Executive Order,"" 3iQ Digital Asset's Head of Research Mark Connors told CoinDesk, adding: ""It's about inflation and that's uncertain. So we are rangebound.""
Stocks traveled a different paths, as they've done for most the past few days, rising after senior executives at JPMorgan Chase said that U.S. consumer credit market was in good shape short-term. The S&P 500, which spent a large portion of Friday in bear market territory, meaning that the index was trading at least 20% lower than its previous high, increased 1.8%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and tech heavy Nasdaq climbed 1.9% and 1.5%, respectively. Last week, the indices plunged almost 3%.
Cryptos have spent much of the year tracking stocks so the latest separation represents at least a small twist in their evolving relationship. 3iQ's Connors said that digital assets will likely remain rangebound at least until the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics issues its next consumer price index report (CPI) in early June. The CPI may show if inflationary pressure is waning.
""For right now, you might have some people pushing uncertain markets to see what breaks but I don't think there will be breaks either way,"" Connors said.
S&P 500: 3,973 +1.8%
DJIA: 31,880 +1.9%
Nasdaq: 11,535 +1.5%
Gold: $1,853 +0.4%
The ongoing damage to Terra investors
The destruction of the Terra protocol has meant a significant hit on the balance sheets of all of its investors. Data about the carnage is available to view on Block explorers, including Korean VC firm Hashed’s staked tokens, which were at one time worth over $3.5 billion.
Hashed’s loss on luna and other Terra ecosystem tokens may not have adversely affected its cash position. Hashed got most of these tokens through its investment in Terraform Labs, and likely bought more of the tokens as it peaked – and probably sold some too.
But for any liquid crypto fund, cash is periphery. Cash is boring. Cash doesn’t have the same amount of leverage.
To understand the significance of crypto on the VC’s balance sheet — and why it matters so much for Hashed - let's look at how Singapore’s Three Arrows Capital made a $1.2 billion position (using January 2021 pricing) in the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC). (New York-based Grayscale is owned by Digital Currency Group, the parent company of CoinDesk.)
Three Arrows Capital is licensed to manage assets of not more than SGD250 million (US$181 million) for its Singapore entity, according to a filing with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. It also has an entity in the British Virgin Islands, with which it has split the GBTC position equally, according to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Even the 50-50 split would exceed the amount that Three Arrows Capital is authorized to manage.
Three Arrows likely accomplished this through leveraged bitcoin, as BTC has always been an option to buy into the GBTC. Three Arrows wanted to do this because its interest in GBTC is a premium harvesting play, exploiting its current discount with a hope that it returns to a premium or at least to market value.
Three Arrows’ history has shown this wasn’t a wise investment because of the market downturn through most of 2022 and GBTC’s structural problems.
Let's return to Hashed and the other VC firms that held Terra’s tokens in their liquid portfolios.
One scenario is that some firms used the LUNA they had staked as collateral for the leveraged purchase of further tokens for both trading, and to invest in funding rounds that used a Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (SAFT) or another investment vehicle.
Creating an agreement with an over-the-counter desk that pledged staked LUNA for crypto to buy into the SAFT would be a simple task for a fund. Once the lock-up period for the specific token was complete, the OTC desk could be repaid through gains from that token. And the best part of it all is that this could be done without touching its cash position.
So when a fund takes a massive hit on its token portfolio, the effect reverberates through the entire ecosystem. Now, post-LUNA, there will be billions less in dry powder available for VCs to deploy even if their cash positions are relatively sound.
Antalpha Technologies Managing Director Max Liao doesn’t think this will scare off institutional investors. Rather, he’s reminded of the early 2000s dot-com bubble where companies died as fast as they were born. Despite the dozens if not hundreds that imploded, taking with them billions in venture capital dollars, this gave us Amazon (AMZN), Google (GOOG) and PayPal (PYPL).
“While the importance of profit is a given, the events of the past few weeks have only underscored that due diligence and risk management are also critical factors in the execution of successful venture investment,” he said to CoinDesk. “It is imperative that emergent protocols and potential investors remember that businesses that can change the world learn from both their own success and the failure of others.”
For entrepreneurs and builders, this could mean a change of structure for that next investment that involves more cash and fewer tokens.
But the problem with cash is that it comes with much more conservative terms, particularly in the size of rounds and the risk investors are willing to take.
Bitcoin Holds Support at $27K-30K; Resistance at $35K
Bitcoin (BTC) has traded in a tight range between $28,500 and $30,000 over the past week. Despite short-term swings, the cryptocurrency has managed to hold support above $27,000, which could keep some buyers active.
BTC declined by as much as 2% over the past 24 hours.
Momentum signals are improving on the daily chart, similar to what occurred in late February and late March. Further, the relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart continues to rise from oversold levels, which could point to a relief bounce in price.
Still, the daily RSI will need to rise above 50 to determine if a price bounce has staying power.
On the weekly chart, the RSI is the most oversold since March 2020, although momentum signals remain negative. That suggests upside could be limited for BTC, initially toward the $33,000-$35,000 resistance zone.
World Economic Forum
DC Blockchain Summit
CBDC hearing: Digital Assets and the Future of Finance
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Tether Questions, Fmr BitMEX CEO Sentenced to 2 Years Probation
Investors are feeling the aftershocks of the terraUSD (UST) and LUNA crashes as Tether's market cap drops by $10 billion. Alexandre Lores of Quantum Economics joined ""First Mover"" to discuss concerns over stablecoins and the crypto companies supporting them. Plus, crypto markets analysis from Arpan Gautam of Dexterity Capital provided crypto markets analysis and details on the sentencing of former BitMEX CEO Arthur Hayes from CoinDesk's Cheyenne Ligon.
Korean Police Move to Freeze Luna Foundation Guard Assets: Report: Seoul police are seeking to ban the entity from withdrawing suspected embezzled funds.
China Can’t Seem to Stop Bitcoin Mining: Reported hashrate fell to zero for two months in China last year, but it has since returned rather abruptly.
Regulators Are Paying Attention to UST: The collapse of terraUSD (UST) is algorithmic stablecoins’ Libra moment.
Japanese Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Trust to Establish Digital Asset Custodian: Report: The bank's pivot to digital assets comes alongside a global banking shift toward cryptocurrencies.
Fed Survey: 12% of US Adults Held Crypto in 2021: It marks crypto’s first appearance in the central bank’s “Economic Well-Being of U.S. Households” survey.
There Was No Terra ‘Attack’: Conspiracy theories won’t save you from financial reality, says CoinDesk's chief insights columnist.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Bitcoin Pizza Day?
Other voices: Crypto Might Have an Insider Trading Problem (The Wall Street Journal)
""Families are watching the investments they meant for down payments or college tuition or retirement shrink, day after day. They’ve seen big retailers like Walmart [WMT] and Target [TGT] record their steepest stock drops in decades this week, after earnings that signaled an end to the pandemic spending boom. The market turmoil has scared corporate chieftains away from taking their companies public. In Silicon Valley, dreams of multibillion-dollar valuations have been replaced by the reality of layoffs and recoiling investors."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""Alts are down over 80 percent from the highs. In 2017 it was over 95 percent. That is down another 70 percent. My point is picking bottoms is dangerous and if you do scale in slowly."" (Galaxy Digital CEO Mike Novogratz) ... ""Pizza Day brings out that daydream of being a bitcoin billionaire from having made a single brilliant trade. We all hate the actual guy that made this trade because we want to be him. We see the guy as lucky, as having won the lottery and we are envious."" (Jimmy Song in Bitcoin Magazine)"
132,94,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/05/24/south-korean-authorities-look-to-more-closely-scrutinize-exchanges-following-terra-meltdown-report/,South Korean Authorities Look to More Closely Scrutinize Exchanges Following Terra Meltdown: Report,"Around 280,000 South Koreans are believed to have been victims of the abrupt plunge in UST and LUNA.",2022-05-24,"South Korea's financial authorities are looking to introduce measures to hold crypto exchanges to greater scrutiny in the wake of Terra's collapse, according to a report by The Korea Times.
Crypto was on the agenda at a National Assembly emergency seminar this week. A two-day-long meeting was designed to discuss the disaster involving the Terra stablecoin UST and its sister token LUNA, which both collapsed to near zero earlier this month.
""We need to make exchanges play their proper role, and toward that end it is crucial for watchdogs to supervise them thoroughly,"" Rep. Sung Il-jong of the ruling People Power Party said. ""When exchanges violate rules, they should be held legally responsible to ensure that the market functions well without any troubles.""
Around 280,000 South Koreans are believed to have been victims of the abrupt plunge in UST and LUNA's values, according to the Korea Times.
The country's Financial Services Commission plans to build close ties with law enforcers ""to monitor any illegal acts in the industry and protect investors' rights,"" said its vice chair, Kim So-young.
Authorities are also looking into whether Do Kwon, the CEO of Terra creator Terraform Labs and a citizen of South Korea, has perpetrated fraud in targeting investors with his crypto project.
Cryptocurrency has been prominent in political discussion in South Korea in recent months, with both candidates in March's presidential election taking crypto-friendly stances in order to appeal to younger voters.
Winning candidate Yoon Suk-Yeol pledged to deregulate the industry in order to “realize the unlimited potential of the virtual asset market.”
Read more: Do Kwon: ‘I Am Heartbroken’ Over Pain Caused by UST Collapse"
133,323,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/24/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-dominates-but-altcoins-lurk/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Dominates but Altcoins Lurk,"Although Terra's collapse has raised existential questions about the future of DeFi, some traders appear to be preparing for a return to altcoins; BTC remains rangebound below $30,000 in Tuesday trading.",2022-05-24,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin rises but remains below $30,000.
Insights: Bitcoin dominance is at an on-year high, but traders are preparing another alt-season.
Technician's take: Technical indicators are neutral and upside appears limited from here.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,672 +2%
Ether (ETH): $1,978 +0.4%
Bitcoin fares better than other major cryptos
Bitcoin wasn't going anywhere fast late Tuesday.
The largest cryptocurrency was up slightly but still trading below $30,000 and about midway in the two thousand dollar range that it has occupied for almost two weeks since the crash of the UST stablecoin. Other major cryptos also rallied late to hit green, albeit not by much, as investors gripped tightly to their risk-averse bearishness.
Near the time of publication, bitcoin was trading at about $29,700, a 2% gain. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently up less than a percentage point, while XRP, SOL and the meme coin SHIB each rose over 1%. Bitcoin's price has dropped for eight consecutive weeks.
""Bitcoin is in the danger zone as sentiment for risky assets have fallen off a cliff,"" Oanda senior market analyst Edward Moya wrote.
Macroeconomic news offered little encouragement for investors.
Stocks about-faced from their healthy Monday gains after social media platform Snap Inc. (SNAP) issued a profit and earnings warning that swept up the tech sector, and the U.S. Commerce Department reported that new home sales plummeted 17% in April to hit a two-year low. The tech-focused Nasdaq plunged 2.3%. The S&P 500 also fell, albeit more moderately.
Snap shares declined over 40% from their Monday close after the company said its revenue and profit would miss earlier projections for its second quarter, a victim of inflationary pressures and macroeconomic turmoil. According to The Wall Street Journal, the company's CEO, Evan Spiegel, said in a presentation prior to the warning that he had asked managers to look for cost savings. Tech giants Meta (FB) and Google (GOOG) dropped about 7% and 5% respectively
The housing report reflected the impact of rising mortgage rates on would-be home buyers who are now priced out of loans they might have afforded when borrowing costs were lower earlier in the year. Meanwhile, the manufacturing and service purchasing managers index dropped to three- and four-month lows, primarily victims of rising prices.
In the smallest sliver of good news, the bitcoin Fear & Greed Index, which has been stuck in ""fear"" zone over the past month and reached its second-lowest recorded fear level in the index's history last week, has improved slightly the past few days, suggesting bearish sentiment could diminish, particularly if bitcoin crosses $30,000.
But Oanda's Moya noted that even falling Treasury yields, ""which makes crypto attractive,"" have failed to move investors. ""Right now, no one wants to buy this dip,"" he wrote, adding that bitcoin could test support just above $25,000 and that $20,000 remains a possibility. ""Bitcoin can't stabilize until Wall Street sees calm and that might not happen for a little while longer.""
S&P 500: 3,941 -0.8%
DJIA: 31,928 +0.1%
Nasdaq: 11,264 -2.3%
Gold: 1,866 +0.6%
Bitcoin Dominance is at an on-year high, but traders are preparing for another alt-season
As bitcoin continues to trade comfortably within the $30,000 range, data shows the cryptocurrency’s dominance of the digital asset market has shot upward and is now just under 45% of total market capitalization, a high for the year.
Bitcoin’s dominance of the broader crypto market cap reflects traders’ risk tolerance and market sentiment. When conditions turn bullish, traders move capital into Ethereum and other layer 1, or base, blockchains in order to take advantage of the decentralized finance (DeFi) market. Likewise, a bearish market brings back traders into the safe haven of bitcoin, crypto’s ""digital gold.""
With the implosion of the Terra ecosystem, many layer 1s have been hit hard: Solana is down 50% during the last month, Avalanche is down 60% during the same period, and Polygon lost just over 53% of its value.
While Terra’s collapse leaves many with existential questions about the future of crypto and DeFi as an investment vehicle, traders appear to be preparing to return to altcoins, with data suggesting that bitcoin’s dominance might be short-lived.
According to CoinGlass, funding rates for ether and major alts are working in the favor of long traders. Funding rates are turning negative, which means that short sellers are being liquidated in favor of those with long positions.
Likewise, the ratio of long positions to short has moved in favor of longs for ether, DOT and SOL as per CoinGlass’ data.
There’s still a long way to go before we can declare another season of the alts, despite a few green sprouts. The total value locked into DeFi protocols, the vehicle in which many alts are used, doesn’t show any signs of improvement.
DeFiLlama has the total locked-in value at $111 billion, down from around $205 billion at the start of the month, before Terra’s planetary collapse, and well below the $250 billion in DeFi in December of last year.
The fact that so much wealth vanished in the last two weeks is going to give many traders pause, especially as institutional investors lost billions of dollars. But we are seeing that conviction remains in the asset class, even as it's tested time and time again.
Bitcoin Range-Bound; Support at $27K, Resistance at $33K
Bitcoin (BTC) continues to trade in a tight range, struggling to make a decisive break above or below $30,000. The cryptocurrency found support around $27,500, which has stabilized price action over the past week.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart is rising from oversold levels, but remains capped below the 50 neutral mark. A move above 50 in the daily RSI would confirm a brief recovery in price. For now, upside appears to be limited, initially toward the $33,000-$35,000 resistance zone.
Momentum signals are improving on the daily chart, but remain negative on the weekly and monthly charts. That could increase the risk of a breakdown in price, similar to what occurred in earlier this month.
World Economic Forum
Blockchain & Sustainable Economic Growth conference
Nvidia second-quarter earnings
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Sending Decentralized Data Storage to Space, Buying Land in the Metaverse
Marta Belcher of Filecoin Foundation explained how her organization is teaming up with Lockheed Martin (LMT) to explore sending blockchain data to space. Plus, Josh Olszewicz of Valkyrie provided insights on crypto markets and Sam Hamilton of Decentraland Foundation discussed virtual land.
At Davos, Crypto Is No Longer on the Outside: Cryptocurrencies have taken a prominent role at the World Economic Forum's annual meeting in Davos, despite the mainstream finance world's apparent contempt for the sector.
South Korean Authorities Look to More Closely Scrutinize Exchanges Following Terra Meltdown: Report: Around 280,000 South Koreans are believed to have been victims of the abrupt plunge in UST and LUNA.
LUNA’s Ghost Haunts ‘Permissionless’ Crypto Conference: At the first industry conference since Terra’s $40 billion collapse, companies and investors say crypto could face a more uncertain future.
Bitcoin Records Eighth Week of Losses, but Sentiment Indicator Suggests Upside: Sentiment indicators reached “rock bottom” on Monday amid a prominent fund manager calling for a retest of 2019’s price levels.
Climate Company Flowcarbon Raises $70M Through A16z-Led Round, Sale of Carbon-Backed Token: Flowcarbon aims to drive investment in projects that remove carbon from the atmosphere by creating a protocol that tokenizes carbon credits.
Martin Shkreli Is Back. He Loves Crypto: The flawed former hedge fund manager is looking to reinvent himself as a crypto entrepreneur. Buyer beware.
Today's crypto explainer: What Is a Satoshi? Understanding the Smallest Unit of Bitcoin
Other voices: Welcome to the Zombie Cryptocalypse (Wired)
“They got Ukraine wrong, they got the West wrong, they basically got everything wrong. We diplomats of the Foreign Ministry are also at fault for this, for not passing along the information that we should have – for smoothing it out and presenting it as though everything was great.” (Russian diplomat Boris Bondarev referring to his country's invasion of Ukraine in The New York Times) ... ""Yet, bitcoin and the larger crypto industry could largely be described as an experiment with liberalism. That’s the ""lowercase l"" variety, or the political philosophy that takes an expansive view of individual rights and equality."" (CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn) ... ""In some sense, the hyperreal isn’t just a goal but potentially a necessary end state of the metaverse. Scaling immersive digital experiences to billions of people will only be possible when content creation is automated with artificial intelligence (AI)."" (CoinDesk contributor and Metaphysic co-founder and CEO Tom Graham)"
134,155,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/24/lunas-ghost-haunts-permissionless-crypto-conference/,LUNA’s Ghost Haunts ‘Permissionless’ Crypto Conference,Subtitle not found,2022-05-24,"WEST PALM BEACH, FLA. — One topic dominated the conversation at Blockworks’ Permissionless conference last week: Terra’s collapse.
After the death spiral of UST and LUNA wiped $40 billion from the books, many conference attendees were naturally preoccupied with where the contagion could spread, and who got rekt.
“I think the damage is pretty much done,” said Michael Tant, co-founder of the crypto venture capital firm Citizen X. “A lot of people got hit really hard but we don’t know the extent. There’s going to be a slow unwind of the impact over the next couple of months.“
CoinDesk spoke with a diverse group of conference attendees ranging from venture capitalists to project founders to crypto developers. Nearly all expressed worry about the Terra collapse and its various repercussions (market, regulatory, public opinion) for the industry.
“The yacht parties are going to be more subdued going forward,” said Vance Spencer, co-founder of the $1.5 billion crypto venture capital firm Framework Ventures.
“I spoke at my first conference in mid-2018 and recently went back to look at the list of speakers,” said Spencer. He said that “75% of those people are gone. You’re going to see a lot of people leave the space.”
But at Permissionless, the crypto crowds (and the yacht parties) were certainly still on display.
As the conference approached, many ticket holders wondered what type of presence Terra, a lead sponsor, would have at Permissionless.
Throughout CoinDesk’s three-day attendance, Do Kwon and the Terra team were nowhere to be found.
“I’m not surprised,” one investor at the event told CoinDesk. “I doubt Do Kwon will ever set foot on U.S. soil again. Just look at what happened last time.”
Last September, at data firm Messari’s Mainnet conference in New York, Kwon was served by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with a subpoena before his onstage appearance.
A Wednesday panel on stablecoins that originally had Kwon as a headline speaker continued with MakerDAO lead developer Sam MacPherson replacing Kwon. MakerDAO is the platform behind DAI, the decentralized stablecoin that had been UST’s largest competitor.
“For a long time, there’s been debate between the two communities,” MakerDAO’s Luca Prosperi told CoinDesk. “Ultimately, the MakerDAO construct proved to be way more resilient, but it doesn’t give us pleasure because a lot of people lost a lot of money.”
In another instance, the opening day afterparty that was originally to be hosted by Terra was instead sponsored by Avalanche, another blockchain that partnered with Terra last month.
“The Terra people had all their swag shipped to the conference, they were supposed to be here with a booth,” one Permissionless sponsor told CoinDesk. “They came and picked it all up before the conference started because they didn’t want it to get meme’d on.”
CoinDesk spotted one attendee wearing a shirt emblazoned with the Terra logo. It was Terra developer Ivan Zundel, who said he had just flown from the Terra Hacker House in Chicago to attend the conference.
“There was a very solemn mood [at the hacker house],” Zundel told CoinDesk when asked about the vibe. “People didn’t feel that much motivation to build. Every day we were just looking at the price of LUNA dropping and UST de-pegging.”
“I’m not sure about the future of Terra,” continued Zundel. “But I think the ecosystem was good, the builders are good. The issue is, if nobody uses Terra, why would you build on it?”
CoinDesk also spoke with another algorithmic stablecoin project, USDN, the so-called Neutrino Dollar native to the Waves blockchain.
“USDN cannot death spiral the way UST/LUNA did,” said Coleman Maher, head of ecosystem at Waves Labs. “LUNA became hyperinflationary, while WAVES has a cap [on the minting].”
Maher told CoinDesk USDN is only backed by the token WAVES, and that he remained confident in the project. This year, WAVES surged over 300% to reach an all-time high of $62 this past March before falling to $5.46 as of Tuesday afternoon.
MakerDAO’s Prosperi says the stablecoin game is a patient one.
“From the outside, Maker has always been perceived as a slow-moving giant,” Prosperi told CoinDesk. “Innovation takes time, but we think for stablecoin providers, being prudent is very important. There is value in being very cautious in the way you innovate.”
For industry players, even those not directly impacted by LUNA’s collapse, the bearish market conditions seemed to have deflated crypto’s “easy money” environment.
“There used to be a really friendly environment with lots of $100-$200 million Series As,” said Framework’s Spencer. “I think that’s over. Now, if a project doesn’t have traction after their seed round, they’re not getting another check.”
Should prognostications of diminished venture capital interest ring true, founders could face a capital crunch in the ensuing months.
“Companies went into the new year with less than nine months of runway expecting to raise an up round to support their irresponsible burn rates,” said Bruno Faviero, co-founder of Magna, a token distribution platform. “Now they have to make tough decisions.”
A conference attendee from a project that was in the process of raising a round with venture capital firm Hashed told CoinDesk they were looking for a new firm to lead the round. CoinDesk previously reported that Hashed, a big investor in Terra, suffered $3.5 billion in losses from the debacle.
“I’m worried about some of the VCs that experienced huge losses that are now forced to sell down,” said Citizen X’s Tant. “Funds that got rekt will be looking to book profits or get liquidity from other projects in their portfolios.”
Other crypto players are more optimistic about a recovery, saying the current bear market will be less dreary than the “crypto winter” spanning late 2018 to early 2020.
“Institutions started to really shop crypto in the past 24 months,” said Felix Hartmann, founder of crypto investment firm Hartmann Capital. “The interesting thing is, they haven’t stopped. They’re not saying, ‘Whew, I dodged a bullet’ like they were in 2018.”
According to Hartmann, institutions are still interested in crypto despite the Terra fiasco. Additionally, the equities market doesn’t appear to be doing much better – another factor driving the institutional interest in crypto.
Quipped Hartmann: “If Target [TGT] dropped 25% a day, maybe crypto isn’t so bad.”
Only at #Permissionless pic.twitter.com/CB3qE19z1e
Another important metric for the health of the industry is the inflow of developer talent – and there were at least anecdotal signs at Permissionless that this was also a variable affected by the market rout.
Previously, crypto broker Floating Point Group had a 100% acceptance rate of job offers over the last year, according to co-founder Kevin March.
However, since May 7, March said the firm has had several offer declines, with all of the declining candidates citing it was “not the right time to move into crypto,” according to the company’s post-interview feedback process.
“We had nearly a two-year perfect record,” March told CoinDesk. “We were founded in the 2018 crypto winter. We know this game – it’s time to build.”
Kevin Owocki, founder of the crypto grants organization Gitcoin, says that not all building in crypto is equal, and that the industry should be more focused on “positive-sum games.”
“It’s incumbent upon us to shift our attention and capital away from the latest decentralized casino and towards impact [decentralized autonomous organizations], projects that create positive externalities for the world,” Owocki told CoinDesk."
135,123,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/24/tether-transparency-is-needed-following-terras-ust-collapse-analyst/,Tether ‘Transparency Is Needed’ Following Terra’s UST Collapse: Analyst,"The director of blockchain market research Quantum Economics said during CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" that Tether should be more transparent about “what they actually hold on their balance sheets.”",2022-05-24,"In the wake of Terra’s UST collapse, stablecoin issuers may soon have to grapple with stricter auditing protocols as investors look for more clarity.
Alexandre Lores, director of blockchain market research at Quantum Economics, said stablecoin issuers like Tether, the issuer of USDT, the largest of the stablecoins, should be providing external audits of underlying assets.
“I think more transparency is needed in terms of showing what they [Tether] actually hold on the balance sheet,” Lores said on CoinDesk TV’s ""First Mover"" program.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
USDT, which is supposed to be pegged 1:1 with the value of the U.S. dollar, is hosted on blockchains including Bitcoin, Ethereum and Tron. USDT most recently had a $10 billion drop in its circulating supply, placing its market capitalization at just above $73 million, according to CoinGecko.
As questions linger about the feasibility and safety of stablecoins in general, USDT’s issuer has had past regulatory run-ins. In October it was fined for more than $42 million by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) for allegedly violating the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) and CFTC regulations. According to the CFTC, Tether’s stablecoins were not fully backed at all times. Tether and a sister company also paid an $18.5 million settlement in February 2021 to close an investigation by the New York Attorney General's office.
Now, as Tether looks to reassure investors while meeting its legal obligations, its latest attestation report, as of March 31, reveals that $286 million of Tether’s assets were being held in non-U.S. Treasury bonds with a maturity of less than 180 days. That revelation was not included in its previous December report.
Lores said Tether’s opaqueness will remain an issue because markets are down and investors are moving to preserve their assets. He said that could change if investors grow more interested in seeking greater profits.
“It’s a short-term change as long as the bear markets continue, which I personally think is going to happen for at least the next year,” Lores said.
He added that backing a stablecoin with a volatile asset makes no sense at all and “as long as they [Tether] have not provided transparent audits of their treasury in real time, it’s going to remain a problem,” he said.
Read more: Algorithmic Stablecoins: What They Are and How They Can Go Terribly Wrong"
136,327,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/24/ex-deutsche-telekom-team-launch-liquid-staking-division-at-crypto-custodian-finoa/,Ex-Deutsche Telekom Team Launch Liquid Staking Division at Crypto Custodian Finoa,Newly formed Finoa Consensus Services is working with staking specialist StakeWise.,2022-05-24,"Looks like Deutsche Telekom’s (DTEGY) loss is Finoa’s gain.
Six months after departing the European telecoms giant, Andreas Dittrich and Daniel Schrader – two of Deutsche Telekom’s former blockchain team – have helped create a unit at cryptocurrency custody provider Finoa for building infrastructure to support proof-of-stake (PoS) networks.
Finoa, regulated by Germany’s BaFin, will work with PoS specialist StakeWise, the companies announced Monday. The new Finoa Consensus Services subsidiary will offer liquid staking.
As Ethereum, the second-largest public blockchain, makes its transition from proof-of-work (PoW) mining to PoS, participants running transaction validator nodes are required to lock up ether (ETH) tokens on the network, for which staking yield can be earned over time. Offering participants a way to have their cake and eat it, liquid staking platforms provide users with IOU tokens representing assets bound to a network for staking and validation purposes, unlocking the ability to use those liquid tokens in decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, for instance.
Finoa has offered in-custody staking for several years. It will run validators on the Ethereum network and become a StakeWise operator for both Gnosis and Ethereum, explained Dittrich, managing director of the new division.
“In our opinion, liquid staking will be on every single PoS network out there within a year or two,” Dittrich said in an interview. “Right now, this might be a new thing, but it will be abundant and very normal in the future. You can’t do without liquid staking.”
There’s a well-trodden path that leads innovators away from bureaucratic enterprises to nimble startups, a steady stream that flows from banks and blue-chip companies to crypto-native firms.
“It was great working for Deutsche Telekom, with this awesome power behind you and being able to steer it once in a while,” Dittrich said. “But really, the speed at which you can move stuff in a company like Finoa is enormous and it’s fully crypto-native.”
Still, the recent collapse of Terra’s UST stablecoin and its related LUNA, might influence regulators’ and the public’s perceptions of complex mechanisms used to earn yield from next-generation blockchains.
“We expect regulation will come to this space. Maybe the pure infrastructure part of staking might remain like a technical or IT service,” he said. “But if you are talking liquid staking that’s pretty close to becoming a financial service. We need to be ready for our institutional clients who want to actively support proof of stake networks but also want to do more with their assets. So we are preparing the crypto space for future regulation.”"
137,325,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/25/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-struggles-to-hold-30k-ahead-of-fed-minutes/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Struggles to Hold $30K Ahead of Fed Minutes,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 25, 2022.",2022-05-25,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: Bitcoin can't seem to break the $30,000 threshold ahead of the Fed's minutes release later today. Ethereum Classic is going against the market, trading up 10% on the day.
Market Moves: Bitcoin options traders are more focused on hedging exposure than ever before, according to data from Arcane Research.
Feature: A snapshot of the Terra blockchain is expected this week. Shaurya Malwa takes a look at how ""new"" LUNA will be distributed.
Bitcoin (BTC) was trading up on the day but struggled to remain above the $30,000 threshold. The world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has lost more than half of its value from its all-time high around $69,000 reached in November 2021.
BTC briefly hit $30,000 in the early trading hours on Wednesday but has since dropped to around $29,600. It is up 1.1% over the last 24 hours.
Ethereum (ETH) was down 0.6% on the day and is struggling to stay above $2,000.
Ethereum Classic (ETC), which has a market capitalization of $3.19 billion, was going against the market and trading 10% up on the day. Ethereum Classic is a blockchain that was created after a contentious hard fork of the Ethereum blockchain took place in 2016. It is like Ethereum in that it supports smart contracts and decentralized applications, known as dapps.
In traditional markets, Asian stocks inched higher while U.S. equity-index futures reversed earlier gains as investors awaited minutes from the Federal Reserve’s latest policy meeting. Those are scheduled for release on Wednesday at 2 p.m. ET (18:00 UTC).
As investors await the Fed minutes, the crypto market is seeing relatively muted trade.
Matthew Dibb, co-founder of Stack Funds, said that he does not foresee any overly optimistic outcome from the release given the language that has been adopted recently by the Fed.
For crypto, Dibb does not predict much impact. “Our expectation for crypto is generally a continuation in the current range or slight downside if macro leads,” said Dibb.
Marcus Sotiriou, analyst at the U.K.-based digital-asset broker GlobalBlock, said that the Fed’s minutes could spark a relief rally in the short-term for crypto.
“As the FOMC makes key decisions about interest rates and the growth of the United States money supply, these meeting minutes will be pivotal for bitcoin’s price in the short term,” said Sotiriou. FOMC stands for Federal Open Market Committee – the Fed's panel that sets monetary policy.
If the Fed hints dovishness for the first time in a long while by mentioning no 75 basis point hikes or a pause in tightening on return to neutral rates, Sotiriou said this would be bullish and could lead to a rally in the next one or two weeks for bitcoin.
On-chain metrics
Bitcoin options traders are more focused on hedging exposure than ever before, according to data from Arcane Research.
Options traders are hedging at large, proven by skews reaching new all-time highs across durations. The 25-delta skew shows the difference between the implied volatility for put and call options at the same maturity. A positive skew signals a higher demand for put options than call options, signaling that traders are leaning bearish.
“These skew levels are unprecedented in the bitcoin options market history, suggesting a very pessimistic outlook among options traders,” wrote Arcane Research in its weekly update.
The one month (25D) skew reached a 24-hour average all-time high on May 12 of 24%, surpassing May peaks from 2020 and 2021.
The six-month 25D skew also shows a strong demand for puts, sitting at 12.57% currently, according to data from Arcane Research. The longer-dated maturities have not reached the current high levels before. On June 1, 2021, the six-month skew peaked at 4.75%.
Andreessen Horowitz Establishes $4.5B Crypto Fund, Its Fourth Silicon Valley venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz is doubling down on its crypto investments despite the market downturn.
Crypto Asset Managers Chase Yield With New Investment Products A cocktail of high inflation and cash-hungry crypto firms are prompting fund issuers like Bitwise and 21Shares to get creative.
Soona Amhaz’s Volt Debuts $50M Crypto Fund Backed by Marc Andreessen, Chris Dixon The VC firm will continue to focus on infrastructure, DeFi, NFTs and DAOs.
DeFi Platform Lido Votes Against Supporting New Terra Blockchain Terra's revival plan was approved by network validators earlier Wednesday.
Web 3 Education Platform Pitches ‘Earn While You Learn’ to Business Executives Metacademy.xyz’s mix of crypto incentivization and education already boasts 2,000 users, founder Shelly Palmer told CoinDesk.
By Shaurya Malwa
A snapshot of the Terra blockchain is expected to take place later this week ahead of the launch of “Terra 2.0,” a so-called revival of the Terra ecosystem following the implosion of terraUSD (UST) earlier this month.
The revival plan is now moving forward after the conclusion Wednesday of a vote among network validators, with a 65% approval rate.
Investors who held over 10,000 LUNA before UST’s implosion will receive the new tokens periodically to prevent immediate selling. Over 30% of their tokens would be unlocked initially, and the remaining 70% would be released over two years. New tokens will be distributed after six months to such holders.
Wallets with more than 1 million LUNA or UST prior to UST’s depegging would have to wait more than a year before receiving any tokens, with a four-year vesting period thereafter, according to the revival plan.
A snapshot – meaning a recording of the state of a blockchain at a specific point in time – will allow Terra to send the newly issued LUNA tokens to holders of the old LUNA. This would, in theory, allow old holders to regain some of their lost investment value while incentivizing usage of the new blockchain.
The snapshot for the Terra 2.0 is expected on May 26. “Going by block times, the post snapshot block, 7,790,000, could happen as soon as May 26, 2022, 16:20:00 UTC,” Terra developers said in a post on Tuesday.
“The supply at genesis is considerably lower than anybody is anticipating, closer to 116.7M rising to 182M after 1 year,” they added, addressing community concerns about a highly inflated luna supply.
How the snapshot plan came about
In early May, UST lost its peg with the U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 7 cents in the weeks afterward, causing prices of its related luna (LUNA) tokens to drop 99.7% and outflows of over $28 billion from Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) apps.
This led to a loss of sentiment among LUNA investors and traders, apparently even sparking public outrage in Korea, where Terra had a huge community, and some crypto funds seeing billions of dollars in losses.
Terra’s oft-brash founder Do Kwon came up with a revival plan in the days afterward, proposing a “fork” of the blockchain and an “airdrop” to holders affected by the UST implosion.
The plan tries to make the community whole while reviving their trust in the Terra ecosystem.
“Fork” of a blockchain refers to the creation of a new blockchain with data from the old blockchain preceding that of the newer ones. Terra developers have, however, stated that ""Terra 2.0"" will be an entirely new project, meaning no data from the current chain will be carried on to the new one.
The revival plan, although voted to pass by Terra’s network validators, was pushed live even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork,” as reported.
LUNA prices are up over 6.2% in the past 24 hours.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Lyllah Ledesma and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
138,202,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/25/first-mover-asia-regulatory-attention-on-terra-could-change-south-korean-trading-environment-bitcoin-goes-sideways/,First Mover Asia: Regulatory Attention on Terra Could Change South Korean Trading Environment; Bitcoin Goes Sideways,"The founders of two prominent crypto-related organizations said tightened restrictions could make it difficult for foreign tokens to list on Korean exchanges, discouraging projects from trying.",2022-05-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos trade sideways.
Insights: In the aftermath of the Terra implosion, South Korea's crypto trading environment could change. Here's what might happen.
Technician's take: BTC has shown no signs of life but a volatile price move is likely.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,612 -0.05%
Ether (ETH): $1,945 -1.5%
Bitcoin travels sideways
Bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies traveled sideways for the second consecutive day.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $29,700, up slightly and roughly where it stood 24 and 48 hours earlier. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was down over a percentage point, still changing hands a little below the $2,000 level it has held much of this week. Other cryptos were mixed, some rising a little and others falling, although metaverse tokens MANA and SAND had a good day with SAND climbing over 7% at one point. TRX was also recently up more than 5%.
A number of crypto markets analysts say that bitcoin will remain in the $28,500 to $30,500 range it has held since the collapse of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin two weeks ago until investors have clarity in how the current uncertain environment of high inflation and sagging economic indicators will resolve itself. According to minutes of their last meeting, released Wednesday, Federal Reserve officials indicated they would have to raise interest rates by 0.5% at each of their next two meetings. The U.S. central bank hiked the rate by the same amount on May 4, but has continued to face criticism for not adopting more hawkish monetary remedies sooner to tame rising prices.
Stocks did better than they have for much of the past few months with the tech-heavy Nasdaq rising 1.5% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average increasing more moderately. Cryptos and equities have suffered as investors have shied away from riskier assets. Gold and yields on 10-year Treasuries sank.
Brent crude oil, a measure of energy market prices, hovered over $111 per barrel, and with the summer U.S. travel season approaching, demand for oil is expected to be strong.
In an interview with CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program Wednesday, Michael Sonnenshein, the CEO of crypto asset manager Grayscale Investments, a subsidiary of CoinDesk parent company Digital Currency Group, noted the ""selling pressure"" and volatility in digital assets but also that the same trends had infected other investment classes.
""Whether it's tech, crypto or really anything, I can't think of many things that had been sheltered from this recent pullback,"" Sonnenshein said. ""There have also been events like Terra that have led to additional selling pressure.""
But Sonnenshein added optimistically: ""In the near term, we will find our footing.""
S&P 500: 3,978 +0.9%
DJIA: 32,120 +0.6%
Nasdaq: 11,434 +1.5%
Gold: $1,853 -0.7%
South Korea's trading environment could change
The implosion of Terra’s U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoin terraUSD (UST) could change South Korea’s frenzied crypto trading market as regulators pay more attention to the situation, two founders of prominent crypto-related organizations said.
The country, a hotbed of trading activity, could tighten restrictions on listings and make it difficult for foreign tokens to list on Korean exchanges, discouraging projects from even trying.
“There are a few elements that might get impacted, especially with the listing part,” Doo Wan Nam, a South Korean who leads growth at MakerDAO and is the founder of crypto venture fund StableNode, told CoinDesk.
UST lost its tie earlier this month as investors sold it for other U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoins, including tether (USDT), in the absence of adequate liquidity, causing UST's price to fall to as low as 7 cents. The luna (LUNA) token that supports the Terra ecosystem lost 99.7% of its value following UST’s failure and Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) applications dropped over $28 billion in locked value.
Suicide helplines flooded Terra-centric community forums in the days following the implosion. At the center of the drama is Terraform Labs, the Singapore-based company behind Terra, and its Korean founder Do Kwon. Kwon is infamous for responding to critics with condescension and even calling for the death of other stablecoin projects.
As per local reports, regulators could tighten listing norms for crypto exchanges in the country as they try to protect the everyday investor from a Terra-like repeat. This could, however, lead to the limitations on how coins are listed and offered to local investors.
Doo noted the potential addition of “safeguards on exchanges” to ensure they meet certain requirements, including “white paper and regular disclosers (updates) from listed coins,” adding, “We aren't sure whether they will implement such but, if so, it would put a burden on bothKorean exchanges and also listed coins.”
Decentralized finance-focused tokens from foreign companies may struggle to enter the Korean market altogether: “Many foreign-based coins, especially DeFi, might be difficult to list on Korean exchanges as such compliance would be difficult to enforce,” Doo explained.
Korea remains one of the world’s largest crypto trading regions, with $2.5 billion worth of tokens traded in the past 24 hours within the country's exchanges alone.
Meanwhile, some market observers say retail traders in Korea – known for their aggressive futures and altcoin trading – could hold off from trading risky assets.
“Given what's happening, the degens may become more cautious in their attitude to the conservative assets,” said Alexander Tkachenko, founder of commodities-based token platform VNX, told CoinDesk. “Regulated crypto products as well as stablecoins backed by real assets such as gold may benefit.”
Bitcoin Stabilizes in Tight Range; Support at $27K, Resistance at $30K-$35K
Bitcoin (BTC) is in a consolidation phase, which is defined by a tight price range with low trading volume. So far, the cryptocurrency has struggled to make a decisive move above $30,000, which is near the top of its recent range.
BTC is up by 3% over the past 24 hours, and momentum has improved over the past week. That means buyers could remain active above the $27,500 support level.
The sharp down move on May 12 toward $25,300 occurred on high volume, which could be a sign of capitulation, albeit less significant than in the previous sell-off.
Still, despite room for a price bounce, upside appears to be limited because of negative momentum readings on the weekly and monthly charts.
World Economic Forum
Blockchain & Sustainable Economic Growth conference
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia private capital expenditure (Q1)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Grayscale’s Sonnenshein on Crypto ETFs; Is JPMorgan Bullish on Bitcoin? The Sandbox on the Metaverse
As investors await bitcoin's next price move, CEO Michael Sonnenshein of CoinDesk sister company Grayscale Investments joined ""First Mover"" to discuss crypto markets and the launch of his firm's first European ETF. Alex McDougall of Stablecorp shared his analysis of the Terra LUNA and UST failures. Plus, we continued the conversation about the metaverse as The Sandbox CEO Mathieu Nouzareth shared his views on this emerging space.
Guggenheim's Minerd Says Bitcoin Will Drop to $8K. We Checked His Record: A quick recap of some of the noted analyst's key prognostications shows just how mixed his track record has proven.
Crypto Whales Ditched Tether for USDC After Stablecoin Panic: The UST failure prompted large investors on the Ethereum blockchain to leave USDT for the perceived safety of its biggest competitor.
Jae Kwon Returns to ‘NewTendermint’ to Battle for the Soul of Cosmos: Ignite, which rebranded from Tendermint in February, will split into two entities: Ignite and NewTendermint.
Defining Cryptocurrency Regulation Important for the Industry to Grow: Morgan Stanley Disagreement on new legislation would be negative and lead to an extended period of uncertainty, the bank said.
Terra Snapshot Expected This Week. Here’s How 'New' Luna Will Be Distributed: The supply of tokens on the new blockchain will be just over 116 million, developers said.
There Was No Terra ‘Attack’: Conspiracy theories won’t save you from financial reality, says CoinDesk's chief insights columnist.
Today's crypto explainer: What Can You Buy With Bitcoin?
Other voices: Cryptocrash: ‘I was arrested for knocking on Luna boss's door' (BBC)
""The metaverse will, at times, be trippy and hallucinogenic. We can live our best, most ideal lives in a body-like avatar and quickly revert back to our real lives without changing physical locations. We can parachute in and out of this world in seconds, seamlessly interweaving multiple different realities into the natural rhythms of our lives."" (Everyrealm CEO Janet Yorio and Director of Gaming Zach Hungate for CoinDesk) ... ""The cost for flights is surging ahead of summer: Airline fares rose 18.6% between March and April, according to the latest data from the consumer-price index. Compared with a year ago, airfare prices are up 33.3% on an unadjusted basis. Common strategies such as waiting for prices to drop, going with another airline or spending frequent-flier miles might not be enough to take the sting out of the cost of traveling, industry analysts say. Travelers who haven’t yet bought their tickets are left with tough choices: pay steeper prices, find other ways to save on their trips or stay closer to home."" (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""There's something to be said about the eerie similarities between predatory lending to Black people during the housing bubble and the effects it had on our community and now seeing Black celebrities push crypto on black people. We know the outcome. (Oscar winner Travon Free)"
139,53,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/25/terra-snapshot-expected-this-week-heres-how-new-luna-will-be-distributed/,Terra Snapshot Expected This Week. Here’s How 'New' Luna Will Be Distributed,"The supply of tokens on the new blockchain will be just over 116 million, developers said.",2022-05-25,"A snapshot of the Terra blockchain is expected to take place later this week ahead of the launch of “Terra 2.0,” a so-called revival of the Terra ecosystem following the implosion of the terraUSD (UST) algorithmic stablecoin earlier this month.
The revival plan is now moving forward after the conclusion Wednesday of a vote among network validators, with a 65% approval rate.
Investors who held over 10,000 LUNA tokens before UST’s implosion will receive the new tokens periodically, to prevent immediate selling. Over 30% of their tokens would be unlocked initially, and the remaining 70% would be released over two years. New tokens will be distributed after six months to such holders.
Wallets with more than 1 million LUNA or UST prior to UST’s depegging from the U.S. dollar would have to wait more than a year before receiving any tokens, with a four-year vesting period thereafter, according to the revival plan.
A snapshot – meaning a recording of the state of a blockchain at a specific point in time – will allow Terra to send the newly issued LUNA tokens to holders of the old LUNA. This would, in theory, allow old holders to regain some of their lost investment value while incentivizing usage of the new blockchain.
The snapshot for Terra 2.0 is expected on Thursday. “Going by block times, the post snapshot block, 7,790,000, could happen as soon as May 26, 2022, 16:20:00 UTC,” Terra developers said in a post on Tuesday.
“The supply at genesis is considerably lower than anybody is anticipating, closer to 116.7M rising to 182M after [one] year,” they added, addressing community concerns about a highly inflated luna supply.
In early May, UST lost its peg with the U.S. dollar and fell to as low as 7 cents in the weeks afterward, causing prices of its related luna (LUNA) token to drop 99.7% and outflows of over $28 billion from Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) apps.
This led to a loss of sentiment among LUNA investors and traders, apparently even sparking public outrage in South Korea, where Terra had a huge community. Some crypto funds were hit with billions of dollars in losses.
Terra’s often-brash founder Do Kwon came up with a revival plan in the days afterward, proposing a fork of the blockchain and an airdrop to holders affected by the UST implosion.
The plan tries to make the community whole while reviving their trust in the Terra ecosystem.
A blockchain fork usually refers to the creation of a new blockchain with data from the old blockchain. While this plan may seem like a fork, Terra developers have stated that Terra 2.0 will be an entirely new project, and no data from the current chain will be carried on to the new one.
The revival plan, although passed by Terra’s network validators, was pushed live even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork,” as reported.
LUNA was up over 6.2% in the past 24 hours."
140,280,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/25/crypto-asset-managers-chase-yield-with-new-investment-products/,Crypto Asset Managers Chase Yield With New Investment Products,A cocktail of high inflation and cash-hungry crypto firms are prompting fund issuers like Bitwise and 21Shares to get creative.,2022-05-25,"Crypto shops are betting on lending amid the market downturn with yield products that boast modest annual returns – by the industry’s lofty standards, at least – on their clients’ dollars
Turning loaned dollars into more dollars is hardly a new proposition in crypto: myriad decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols woo stablecoin holders with a handful of basis points. Terra’s recently imploded Anchor offered 20% yields generated through murky means.
By contrast, the new yield products generate their returns through “rational” rails, said Matt Hougan, chief investment officer for Bitwise, which is rolling out a “USD Income Fund” that loans investors’ dollars to counterparties like Coinbase (COIN) and Gemini (who then loan them into the stablecoin market) in the chase for 4% to 8% yields.
“You can think of us as an aggregation point for cash that is entering this market,” Hougan said on a call. “There’s significant demand for cash in the crypto economy.” He said some of that pressure comes from the void usually filled by traditional lending institutions “unwilling” to loan to a risky industry.
In the short term, that discrepancy could prove highly lucrative for lenders willing to stomach some of the risk. Their dollars can do a lot more work in the crypto economy than in their near-zero interest rate savings accounts, especially given inflation.
“People are being forced to search for yield,” Hougan said, and that’s prompting fund providers to innovate.
European crypto issuer 21Shares’ USD Yield ETP (USDY) and its 5% target yield is the latest iteration. Listed on the Swiss SIX exchange Wednesday, it plans to lend each invested dollar out for somewhere between $1.10 and $1.50 in bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) as collateral – a sort of insurance policy if the borrower implodes.
“So if the counterparty goes bye-bye” explained President Ophelia Snyder, ”we can just go knock on the custodian’s door and say, ‘Hey, they're gone. Give us our money back.’”
Snyder said 21Shares plans to lend investors’ assets out to BlockFi.
The risk of imploding crypto counterparties was on full display earlier this month when the algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and sister token LUNA went into a death spiral. One of the big appeals of that troubled ecosystem were the eye-catching but unsustainable yields of Terra’s Anchor protocol.
Terra’s floundering yield schemes have little in common with USDY, Snyder said. For starters, USDY takes collateral to protect its investors against a counterparty’s default. This may limit the yield generation upside but it does so in the name of “risk adjusted” returns. In her view, that’s a worthwhile tradeoff for investors getting pummeled by market forces.
“Virtually every type of financial product on the market right now is negative. Holding cash has a negative real interest rate. And that's a really important thing to realize,” she said. “This product is particularly well adapted against this backdrop.”"
141,324,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/26/first-mover-americas-btc-dominance-reaches-7-month-highs-alts-suffer/,"First Mover Americas: BTC Dominance Reaches 7-Month Highs, Alts Suffer","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for May 26, 2022.",2022-05-26,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price Point: Altcoins took a hit in price this morning, with ether dropping more than $100 in an hour.
Market Moves: Bitcoin dominance over altcoins reached a seven-month high. The last time it reached this level was in October 2021.
Feature: We take a look at data showing how USD coin (USDC) has become the stablecoin of choice on the Ethereum blockchain, not the larger tether (USDT).
Bitcoin (BTC) was down 1.7% over the last 24 hours and is struggling to hold $30,000. At press time, the world’s largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was trading around $29,000.
Ethereum (ETH) took a bigger hit and was trading down 6.5% on the day, around $1,800.
“With BTC’s price not catching a bid to the upside the negativity comes out,” said Charles Storry, head of growth at Phuture, a crypto index platform.
“The narrative around BTC and crypto, in general, goes from a futuristic store of value to a scam,” said Storry. ""This brings down the price till investor sentiment changes and we move back to the upside.""
Altcoins appear to be suffering more than BTC, with Avalanche (AVAX) leading the drop in price. AVAX was down 12% on the day, Cosmos’ ATOM down by 10.5% and Solana’s SOL by 8%.
In traditional markets, Wall Street had a positive trading session overnight, but has since been mixed. Bonds gained ground as traders weighed the Fed’s minutes that were less hawkish than expected. News from China overnight sent Asian markets and European futures lower.
Despite BTC’s market capitalization declining to $552 billion, bitcoin dominance over altcoins is at a seven-month high. BTC dominance – the measure of how much of the total market cap of crypto is comprised of bitcoin – has increased to 45%, the highest the metric has gone up to since October 2021.
However, signals for BTC are still not showing signs of recovery, according to Laurent Kssis, head of Europe at Hashdex.
“We may see further downward trends in altcoins as there are still strong signs BTC is to remain below $30,000,” said Kssis, in an interview with CoinDesk.
Kssis noted that ether’s drop in price Thursday was particularly significant (ether dropped by $100 at around 9:00 UTC).
""We saw large sellers dominating the market in ether this morning which was fueled by losing interest. This is a clear absence of a bullish volatility currently witnessed in the crypto market,” said Kssis.
Binance's Bahrain License Upgraded for More Crypto Services Binance Bahrain was granted a preliminary license in December and full license in March.
Gaming DAO Merit Circle and YGG Caught in DAO Governance Strife Merit Circle members want to refund Yield Guild Games' investment and cancel an agreement between the two, claiming there’s not been enough value-add by the gaming guild giant.
Former Binance Execs Create $100M Fund to Spur Crypto Adoption in Emerging Markets: Report Old Fashion Research was formed by Ling Zhang and Wayne Fu, previously Binance's vice president of M&A and head of corporate development, respectively
Solana, Dogecoin Tokens Dip as Futures Suggests Bearish Sentiment Choppy trading in broader markets failed to temper a gradual dip in major cryptocurrencies, with some sliding as much as 8% in the past 24 hours.
After Armstrong Tweet, India's Crypto Policy Body Says No Contempt of Court Challenge vs. RBI The Coinbase CEO last month suggested the RBI's ""shadow ban"" of crypto exchanges violated a Supreme Court ruling.
Portuguese Congress Rejects Two Bills Seeking to Tax Crypto The proposals were submitted by two leftist parties. The government, which also seeks to apply taxes, hasn’t submitted a proposal so far.
By Krisztian Sandor
There has been a change in the thinking of the large crypto investors known as whales. Data shows USD coin (USDC) has become the stablecoin of choice on the Ethereum blockchain, not the larger tether (USDT).
In crypto, whales are the biggest cryptocurrency holders – institutional investors, exchanges, deep-pocketed individuals – who are capable of moving large amounts of tokens and swaying market prices. Analysts closely watch their activity to spot trends and anticipate large price movements.
Data from CoinMetrics, a blockchain analysis firm, shows wallet addresses on the Ethereum blockchain that hold more than $1 million USDC surpassed the number of wallets that hold USDT, still the largest stablecoin by market cap.
“In the current market condition, a lot of people view USDC as the safer, preferred stablecoin,"" Edward Moya, trading platform Oanda’s senior market analyst, told CoinDesk.
USDC, the second-largest stablecoin, has been gaining market share since the once-$18 billion UST stablecoin collapsed, and USDT’s peg to the dollar wobbled.
CoinMetrics looked at blockchain data since May 9, when UST lost its peg to the U.S. dollar. The firm identified 147 Ethereum wallet addresses that increased their USDC balance by at least $1 million while decreasing their USDT balance by at least $1 million. Among them, there were 23 that added at least $10 million USDC and disposed of $10 million USDT. Many of these addresses are exchanges, custodial services or decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, the report added.
The report also said USDC’s advantage over Tether's USDT in so-called free float supply – the number of tokens that investors hold – on the Ethereum blockchain hit an all-time high on Tuesday among all holder groups.
""This likely reflects the fact that only large holders are generally privileged to redeem USDT and mint new USDC to capture an arbitrage,"" Kyle Waters, analyst at CoinMetrics, wrote in the report. ""But it might also be the case that some large accounts are de-risking their holdings, turning to the perceived assurances of USDC’s monthly attestations and full-reserve backing.""
Read the full story: Crypto Whales Ditched Tether for USDC After Stablecoin Panic
Today’s newsletter was edited by Lyllah Ledesma and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher.
CORRECTION: The emailed newsletter incorrectly said ether dropped by $1,000. The price decline was $100."
142,117,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/26/terra-devs-need-a-home-other-blockchains-are-courting-them/,Terra Devs Need a Home. Other Blockchains Are Courting Them,Subtitle not found,2022-05-26,"Terra’s swift collapse triggered a crypto market sell-off, billions in lost fortunes and a rumored class-action lawsuit.
But now, Terra’s most valuable asset – the loyalty of their developers – is being challenged.
With the launch of Terra 2.0, projects must decide whether or not they will stay loyal to the Terra ecosystem or choose another path. Competing blockchains are offering up major perks for them to develop on greener pastures. Will they stay or will they go?
As Terra’s native LUNA token lost 99% of its value, other Terra project tokens got swept up in the sell-off, wiping nearly $40 billion in value from the once-robust Terra ecosystem. Indeed, Terra was more than UST.
“Terra projects are exploring different options,” said Dan Edlebeck, co-founder of Sei Protocol, a decentralized finance (DeFi) blockchain in the Cosmos ecosystem. “They’re looking at what makes sense from an engineering perspective, and in some instances, letting their community decide.”
These developers are also facing poaching efforts from Terra’s competitors, with some blockchains even launching eight-figure funds to help sweeten the deal.
Terra developer Neel Somani, 24, quit his job at hedge fund Citadel to build on Terra just one month before the UST depeg. It was notable enough for The New York Times to wax poetic on his misfortunes.
His project, Terranova, aimed to bring Ethereum-compatibility onto the Terra blockchain. Integrating Terra with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) could bring an influx of new projects into the Terra blockchain, the thinking went.
With his current project now “on pause,” Somani says he is facing uncertain next steps.
“A lot of ecosystems have reached out, including Avalanche, Secret Network and Osmosis,” Somani told CoinDesk.
Avalanche is an EVM-compatible blockchain that has previously collaborated with Terra. Secret Network, a privacy-focused blockchain, and Osmosis, with its focus on DeFi, are also based on Cosmos technology.
Somani said these projects typically send him a link to a grant application, along with a handful of ideas of what the network finds attractive. He has also received “a handful” of interview requests from various protocols.
“I haven’t committed to anything at this point,” Somani said.
Dan Eskow, founder of Up Top, a recruiting firm specializing in crypto jobs, says developer talent has been in hot demand, especially for engineers with experience building on Terra.
“There aren’t many engineers who have been deep enough in DeFi to see a project scale to that level,” Eskow told CoinDesk.
Before its collapse, Terra’s UST reached $18 billion in market capitalization, and the Terra ecosystem ranked second in DeFi total valued locked (TVL), according to data from DeFiLlama.
“The engineers at Terra built a strong product,” said Eskow. “The failed strategy is not a reflection of their work, and there are many projects with less baggage that would hire them in a second.”
In short, the failure of a prominent algorithmic stablecoin also sunk the fortunes of other projects that had nothing to do with UST.
For the crypto industry, a chronic shortage of developers has left blockchain projects starving for quality talent.
“A strength of Terra was DeFi,” said Sei’s Edlebeck. “It wasn’t just Anchor. Terra had borrowing and lending, it had derivatives, it had a money market.”
Read more: Jae Kwon Returns to ‘NewTendermint’ to Battle for the Soul of Cosmos
Edlebeck says he would like to see a more “robust” ecosystem on Cosmos, adding that Sei Protocol has started working with an ex-Terra team to build out a perpetuals product.
“I do think that Cosmos and its design architecture is poised to see a lot of new activity take place,” said Edlebeck. Notably, Terra itself is built on Cosmos technology.
In addition to engineers, crypto recruiter Eskow says he’s also looking to poach talent from funds that suffered big losses from Terra, hoping that embattled employees choose to jump ship.
To further entice talent, blockchains projects such as Kadena and Polygon both announced this week that they would dedicate millions in funding to assist projects affected by the Terra turmoil – so long as the project agrees to build on their respective chains.
Kadena, a layer 1 blockchain founded in 2016, announced a $10 million Terra relief fund Thursday in an attempt to court projects into its ecosystem.
“We’re supportive of everyone that’s been affected by this mini meltdown,” said Francesco Melpignano, CEO of Kadena Eco, the growth arm of Kadena. “We don’t want to be dancing on people’s graves.”
Melpignano stressed that the funds will go beyond helping just Terra developers, even projects that, for example, lost runway capital by depositing funds into Anchor would qualify for assistance.
“This is a defining moment for the blockchain industry,” Melpignano told CoinDesk. “It goes beyond Terra.”
Polygon, an Ethereum sidechain, has also announced a multimillion-dollar fund to assist Terra projects looking to build in the Polygon ecosystem. The fund would allow developers to cover unforeseen costs of transferring their businesses away from Terra and onto Polygon.
“When we saw the unfortunate collapse of Terra, it left a lot of developers without a home,” said Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Watt. “Terra’s failure shouldn’t punish [the decentralized applications] built on it.”
Watt declined to comment on the specific size of the fund, in an effort to “ensure that developers aren’t feeling rushed to decide and give off the impression that there’s only a finite amount of money available.”
Additionally, he advised project teams to build where users are and to build to be EVM-compatible.
“The important emphasis here is that we are putting millions of dollars aside, whatever it may take, to properly ensure developers have a home to move to and continue building in Web 3,” Watt told CoinDesk.
Terra projects such as non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace RandomEarth, DeFi protocol Nebula and decentralized exchange Phoenix Finance have publicly announced their solidarity with Terra 2.0, with Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon retweeting the messages to his many followers.
However, representatives of a Terra project who spoke with CoinDesk on the condition of anonymity said that supporting the new chain was not exactly the same as committing to build on Terra.
“Terraform Labs was extremely good to us as developers, so we want to support them in launching the fork, but we can’t commit to building yet,” a Terra developer told CoinDesk. “The thinking is, there’s not any downside with aligning with Terra until things with the new chain become clearer.”
Sei Protocol’s Edlebeck says he’s been in close communications with several top Terra projects over the past few weeks, including the team from Delphi Labs, a heavy investor in the Terra ecosystem.
“Project founders are really exploring other options, even more than I was anticipating,” said Edlebeck. “Terra 2.0 has too much up in the air, the path forward is being questioned.”
Despite the uncertainty over where to build next, Kadena’s Melpignano says he hopes developers don’t end up leaving the space altogether.
Web 3 talent retention was another motivating factor behind Kadena’s $10 million fund, Melpignano admits.
“Now is the best time to build,” said Melpignano. “This is when the category-defining apps will be born.”
Even for those burned by Terra’s downfall, crypto – with all its highs and lows – appears to have left a mark on the talent it attracts.
“A bunch of hedge funds reached out to me too, asking if I wanted to go back to traditional finance,” Somani, the former Citadel staffer, told CoinDesk. “But I’m all-in on crypto.”"
143,326,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/cryptos-one-unassailable-use-case-helping-human-rights-activists/,Crypto's One Unassailable Use Case: Helping Human Rights Activists,"The Oslo Freedom Forum was heavy on bitcoin and stablecoin discussions, underscoring that this technology is a tool for political dissidents, not just a get-rich-quick scheme.",2022-05-27,"Attendees at this week’s Oslo Freedom Forum, a 13-year-old annual gathering for human rights and pro-democracy activists, might have wondered at times if they’d mistakenly wandered into a cryptocurrency conference.
Bitcoin developer Jimmy Song’s signature cowboy hat could be spotted here and there at the Oslo Concert Hall, where the forum, organized by the Human Rights Foundation, took place. The erudite investor and entrepreneur Nic Carter strolled around with an umbrella cane. On stage, author and podcaster Laura Shin interviewed a non-fungible token (NFT) artist. The stalwarts of Bitcoin and Lightning Network development held workshops on using the currency, and crypto CEOs discussed hedging strategies for a potential ban on stablecoins backstage.
A crypto conference, of course, would not normally feature human rights activists recounting their first-hand experience of political oppression, investigative journalists sharing how they fight propaganda and cybersecurity specialists checking phones for traces of spyware.
But if you think about it, crypto events maybe could be a little more about those kinds of things.
While for many crypto is a way to get rich, for others it’s a human rights tool, providing sometimes clumsy but still serviceable ways to route around financial censorship and surveillance, especially in those parts of the world where such measures are prevalent.
And that use case is not going away, no matter which direction the price of bitcoin (BTC) goes.
“If no one values bitcoin other than a penny, we’re still able to [move value across the world] and fight for freedom,” said Jack Mallers, CEO of bitcoin payments startup Strike, sporting an orange and violet sweater and “Miracle Academy” hat on stage.
Alex Gladstein, chief strategy officer at the Human Rights Foundation and the curator of the financial freedom track at the Oslo Freedom Forum, was asked if he believes the activist community is warming up to crypto. He replied that the reason he incorporates bitcoin content into the program is “because many organizations are already using it.” In some cases, they do so thanks to him.
Meron Estefanos, a human rights activist helping to free victims of human traffickers in Eritrea, says she was skeptical about bitcoin at first, but warmed to it after attending Gladstein’s workshops. At the same time, the government in Eritrea was tightening the screws on Hawala, the centuries-old remittances system relying on a network of people passing cash between each other across borders.
Now, Hawala brokers are asking for their clients’ names “and I can not send my mom any money using my name” because the authorities in Eritrea are after her for her human rights advocacy, says Estefanos, who is based in Sweden. So bitcoin became a remittance channel for her: Now, she is paying a team of researchers in bitcoin to help her.
For activists from Russia whose work has sent them into exile, bitcoin also became a lifeline connecting people to the ones they left behind at home, said Leonid Volkov, who managed crypto donations for Alexey Navalny, the imprisoned Russian opposition leader.
“After our movement was outlawed in Russia and we were forced to relocate abroad, we realized bitcoin is very important as we can use it to support our friends and colleagues back in Russia. Because otherwise, they would be receiving money from ‘terrorists,’” Volkov said, referring to how the government is labeling Navalny’s organization, the Anti-Corruption Foundation.
Read more: Bitcoin Donations to Navalny Surge After Russian Opposition Leader Is Jailed
Bitcoin can serve as an underground payment channel in regimes with abusive financial surveillance, when receiving money from abroad puts activists in the authorities’ crosshairs. That was the case when Students for Liberty, a U.S. non-governmental organization (NGO) supporting student protests around the globe, needed to send money to a student in China.
“We sent a payment, and the next day he was summoned to the police station to explain what that was about,” Wolf von Laer, the organization’s CEO, said. He also told CoinDesk he sent bitcoin to some of his staff in Ukraine when they needed to evacuate from a dangerous area during the ongoing military invasion by Russia.
At least partly due to Gladstein’s own long-term devotion to bitcoin, most crypto-related panels at the forum have been dedicated to the oldest and largest cryptocurrency, with a series of practical workshops on various software and services for bitcoin payments.
However, stablecoins also got some attention during a panel with Tether Chief Technology Officer Paolo Ardoino and Ire Aderinokun, co-founder of African crypto firm Helicarrier.
Ardoino assured the audience Tether was capable of redeeming its stablecoin, USDT, in large amounts even in times of crisis, like the one that took place after the Terra protocol’s UST, an algorithmic stablecoin, and its sister cryptocurrency LUNA crashed.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
The audience seemed to receive Ardoino’s talk well. After the panel, however, he was approached by Obi Nwosu, the founder of U.K. crypto exchange Coinfloor. He asked what kind of insurance could be created against the risk of Tether failing, especially for holders in countries where they can’t receive U.S. dollars in exchange for USDT.
“I think that Tether would fail only if the governments ban it,” Nwosu said. They discussed a possibility to create a kind of insurance policy when USDT holders would receive as much bitcoin as their tethers were supposed to be worth, but the question how exactly that should work was left open for now.
The question of Tether’s reliability and resilience is especially important for people deprived of access to financial services, who are vulnerable to the quirks of their own unstable economies and see USDT as the only available substitute to a U.S. dollar-denominated bank account. Nigeria is one example, Aderinokun said.
“Dollar-denominated accounts are not accessible to everyone and you need to be spending $20 a month” in fees to keep one, she said. “And you might wake up one day to realize the government has converted all your dollars to naira.”
The human rights angle, in addition to being one of the strongest arguments in favor of cryptocurrencies’ existence, also balances out parts of the crypto narrative in which arrogance, greed and other unsavory aspects of human nature often steal the show.
Nelson Rauda, a Salvadoran investigative journalist for El Faro, poured cold water on the much-touted change in El Salvador, which recognized bitcoin as a legal tender last year after a push from President Nayib Bukele.
While bitcoiners wrote elated tweets over the move, for ordinary Salvadorians, who are concerned about losing the little money they have to bitcoin’s volatility or the flaws of the government-blessed bitcoin wallet, nothing exciting has happened so far, Rauda said. “Go to the streets and you’ll see that people are not taking it.”
And the rhetoric of rich bitcoiners telling not-so-rich Salvadorians how bright their future will be is galling, especially when it comes to “Bitcoin City,” a techno-utopian project to transform the city of La Union into a place where the local economy runs on bitcoin.
The project might “erase” the community living in La Union, whose homes are slated to be demolished to build Bukele’s dream, Rauda said.
“I was last week in the house of a fisherman, who is being displaced, and the community is being displaced by millionaires that are going to support Bitcoin City,” he said, adding:
Maybe that’s something to discuss at the regular crypto conferences, too.
UPDATE (June 4, 17:43 UTC): Fixes typo in seventh paragraph. Jack Mallers is the CEO of Strike, not Stripe. An editing error was to blame."
144,174,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/nansen-research-debunks-single-attacker-myth-in-terras-collapse/,Nansen Research Debunks Single 'Attacker' Myth in Terra's Collapse,The TerraUSD stablecoin collapsed for one reason: big holders didn't trust it.,2022-05-27,"Friday morning, on-chain analytics firm Nansen released its in-depth report on the trading activity that led to the depegging of the stablecoin terraUSD (UST). There is an immense amount of detail to be unpacked, but Nansen’s most important conclusion is this:
“We refute the popular narrative of one ‘attacker’ or ‘hacker’ working to destabilize UST. The depeg of UST could instead have resulted from the investment decisions of several well-funded entities, e.g., to abide by risk management constraints or alternative to reduce UST allocations deposited into [lending protocol] Anchor in the context of turbulent macroeconomic and market conditions.”
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
To put that in English, Nansen concludes that terraUSD lost its one-to-one peg to the U.S. dollar because a variety of large holders felt it was too risky to keep holding the tokens. So they sold them.
Nansen identified seven wallets that were putting big selling pressure on the token, and it believes they all belong to separate actors. Nansen says one of the seven, for instance, is part of the Celsius network.
Nansen found that from May 7-11, these “whales” independently began aggressively trading their UST for USDC or other assets through the Curve liquidity pool, where Nansen said the depeg originated. (Curve is a decentralized token exchange on Ethereum.)
The Luna Foundation Guard tried to defend the peg by buying all that UST, but whales dumped so much LFG couldn’t keep up. That is, the nonprofit founded to protect UST’s $1 valuation didn't deploy enough assets to soak up all that UST. At that point, the peg started to waver as worried UST holders decided it was worth it to take 97 or 98 cents on the dollar.
From there it was all over but the shouting, because UST’s Rube Goldberg-like perpetual motion machine made it profitable to arbitrage this price imbalance in a way that widened it further. That led to a “death spiral” for UST and caused LUNA – its related “balancer token” – to hyperinflate, ultimately leaving few buyers for either.
There’s a lot more to say about the back-end nuances, but the big picture is what matters here: At the end of the day, UST collapsed because several large holders independently decided it was too risky. This shouldn’t be surprising, because after the terraUSD collapse insiders like Sam Bankman-Fried of FTX have suggested the smart money knew the token “was transparently going to falter at some point,” and were poised to bolt when waters got choppy.
And why was the smart money so primed to run for the exits? Because they looked at the fundamental structure of LUNA and UST and saw something that could never work. Any other understanding of events is pure and simple deflection – what the kids these days call “cope.”
As I wrote last week, the idea that a single malicious “attacker” or some shadowy cabal had intentionally knocked UST off its kilter basically amounts to a defense of terrible network design, implying that things would have been fine if it weren’t for the powerful enemies of the Luna(tic) Revolution. But the Nansen report shows that for the delusion it is: UST collapsed because there wasn’t enough market faith in the algorithmic stablecoin’s design and team, and that’s that.
See also: UST's Do Kwon and the Human Cost of Lunatic Hubris | Opinion
This morning, I belatedly discovered one of the most absurd pieces of UST conspiracy cope yet, one that nicely sums up the motivated thinking behind the “attack” narrative. BitBoy, a particularly suspect YouTube crypto “influencer” who has been credibly accused of taking “pay to play” payments to promote tokens, confidently declared last week that the U.S. government is “100% behind the UST depeg.”
Whether he’s self-aware about it or not, BitBoy here is delivering the perfect line to cover his own ass as a Terra promoter (LUNA’s “pump cannot be stopped,” he declared in December), as well as covering for Do Kwon and his investors. Because, boy, if the U.S. government was behind the attack, then surely there wasn’t a problem with the UST design or the team. In fact – My God! – wouldn’t that suggest LUNA/UST were so perfect and powerful that the government was desperate to strangle it in its crib?
This is the kind of lazy, fact-free conspiracy thinking that’s rotting all of our brains and lets grifters get away with stealing your money. In this case it’s particularly devilish because we’re about to see the launch of “Luna 2.0,” which skeptics have said could just be another chance for Do Kwon and his allies to work over the same people they got the first time around.
See also: Do Kwon Is the Elizabeth Holmes of Crypto | Opinion
The truth is that LUNA and terraUSD collapsed, at best, because they were built on a fundamentally flawed economic mechanism that incentivized its own collapse the moment faith wavered even slightly. Accepting that reality might not be comforting, but getting to keep your money should be."
145,50,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/05/27/new-terra-blockchain-expected-to-launch-on-saturday-luna-airdrop-to-follow/,"New Terra Blockchain Launch Expected Saturday, With LUNA Airdrop to Follow",The move is part of a broader plan to help revive the Terra ecosystem and its related tokens.,2022-05-27,"Terra’s new blockchain will be launched on Saturday followed by an airdrop of new LUNA tokens to users as part of a broader plan to revive the ecosystem, developers confirmed Friday.
“The community has been working around the clock to coordinate the new chain’s launch,” Terra developers said in a tweet on Friday morning. “Subject to potential change, we expect Terra to go live on May 28th, 2022 at around 06:00 AM UTC.”
A snapshot of the new blockchain, currently called ""Terra 2.0,"" took place earlier this week after the conclusion of a vote among network validators with a 65% approval rate.
Holders of LUNA and terraUSD (UST), a U.S.-dollar pegged stablecoin, are eligible to receive new LUNA tokens in a vested manner based on their previous holdings. This would, in theory, allow old holders to regain some of their lost investment value while incentivizing usage of the new blockchain.
For example, wallets with more than 1 million LUNA or UST prior to UST’s depegging from the U.S. dollar would have to wait more than a year before receiving any tokens, with a four-year vesting period thereafter. New tokens will be automatically distributed to existing user wallets.
Popular applications from the current blockchain – which will continue as ""Terra Classic"" after the launch of Terra 2.0 – are expected to migrate to the new blockchain.
Separately, a governance vote on Terra’s proposal 1747 to burn 1.388 billion UST passed on Thursday. The move reduced UST’s supply by some 11% of its current supply of 11.28 billion.
Terra’s UST tokens saw a bank run earlier this month that caused prices of the tokens to fall to as low as 7 cents. This caused a loss of trust in the Terra ecosystem among investors, with prices of LUNA tokens falling nearly 100% and Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) applications losing upward of $28 billion in locked value."
146,39,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/27/first-mover-asia-crypto-carbon-trading-is-racing-to-clean-up-its-act-cryptos-drop-even-as-stocks-rise/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Jumps Above $31K; Crypto Carbon Trading Races to Clean Up Act,Carbon credit protocols have had a difficult time in recent months but have been working to improve the way they operate; bitcoin on Monday notched its biggest single-day gain in more than two months.,2022-05-27,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin jumps more than 7%, and some crypto market analysts are asking if the bottom is in.
Insights: Crypto carbon trading firms are looking to address problems that have plagued them.
Technician's take: BTC remains in a choppy trading range with limited upside.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,646 +8.4%
Ether (ETH): $1,990 +11%
Bitcoin posts biggest daily price rise in two months, as crypto markets rally broadly
Traditional markets were mostly closed in the U.S. on Monday for a holiday, but bitcoin (BTC) didn't rest.
The largest cryptocurrency jumped more than 7% to about $31,500, in its biggest gain since March 9.
The sudden burst higher came as bitcoin had just completed a record nine-week losing streak that took the price down to around $29,400 from $37,600.
Now crypto analysts are starting to ask if the market is finding a bottom after the latest downdraft.
According to the blockchain analysis firm Glassnode, the recent selling pressure might be easing up. ""The price action appeared to have bottomed for the time being,"" Glassnode wrote Monday in its Uncharted newsletter.
Almost all major cryptocurrencies were in the green, with Cardano's ADA gaining some 17% and leading the CoinDesk 20.
(Most traditional markets were closed in the U.S. on Monday for an official holiday.)
Crypto carbon credit protocols look to improve
Like all things crypto, blockchain-based carbon credit protocols have had a tough go of it during the last quarter. They have been subject to the same market pressure as the rest of the industry, which is struggling to regain its footing since the Terra collapse.
But the sector’s challenges are not just to do with market dynamics. It’s also facing an internal reckoning after questions emerged about the quality of the credits being traded inside the base carbon tokens (BCT) issued on the Toucan protocol, which led Verra, a hybrid standards agency and registry responsible for carbon credits, to take a hard look at the practice.
In April, researchers at Carbon Plan, a California-based climate data non-profit, published a paper titled “Zombies on the Blockchain,” which outlined how approximately 28% of the Verified Carbon Units (VCU) traded in BCTs on the Toucan Protocol and via carbon trading KlimaDao were from “zombie projects.”
“Toucan appears to be generating entirely new demand for long-neglected credits that have experienced little or no demand in recent years,” the researchers wrote. “When the crypto market places higher value on BCTs and KLIMA tokens, these products can bring formerly defunct offset projects back to life.”
CarbonPlan highlights in its post that carbon credits under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement prohibit the trading of credits from carbon offset projects registered before Jan. 1, 2013. Yet, these older projects are being actively traded on the Toucan protocol and were still being tokenized as late as November 2021.
“Rather than eliminate supply from the voluntary market, however, zombie projects show that BCTs are bringing new supplies into existence – not in the form of new projects, but of old credits that weren’t previously able to find any buyers,” CarbonPlan’s researchers wrote. “Thanks to demand from blockchain buyers, however, these low-quality credits found new life.”
Aside from the issue of “zombie projects,” the other problem with these projects is structural. The industry has been commodifying what’s called “retired” credits.
When firms want to offset their emissions, they use this process to purchase credits and retire them from the market. In turn, they get a receipt that makes the basis of their published carbon offset and BCT tokens.
In an interview with S&P Global, Robin Vix, Verra’s chief legal, policy and markets officer, called this entire process “mind frying” as the company plans to disconnect the Toucan protocol from buying retired credits.
""Verra will, effective immediately, prohibit the practice of creating instruments or tokens based on retired credits on the basis that the act of retirement is widely understood to refer to the consumption of the credit's environmental benefit,"" Verra's statement said.
Vix said to S&P Global that Verra will start scrutinizing stakeholders' requests for retired carbon credits and block anything it suspects of being associated with tokenization.
“Carbon credits themselves are abstract intangible things based on counterfactuals of things that you can't actually see – emissions. And then crypto is another layer of abstraction on top of that,” Vix said.
But all this isn’t to say that Verra is entirely opposed to the tokenization and trading of carbon credits or that Toucan is not cognizant of the structural flaws of the arrangement.
Verra said that it is exploring ways to ""immobilize"" current – not retired – carbon credits so they can be bridged over to Toucan or other exchanges to trade.
""The initial thinking is that the best way of doing this is if these tokens somehow tie back to live, unretired credits so that the environmental benefit hasn't yet been used,"" Rix said to S&P Global. ""In other words, if you're acquiring tokens or coins, you always know that the underlying [offset] is there.""
In an interview with CoinDesk, Rob Schmitt, one of Toucan’s core developers, emphasized that this isn’t about Verra blocking tokenization; rather, Verra just wants to make the process better.
Schmitt said that bridging and trading retired carbon credits weren’t ideal but just a first step. Once Verra introduces the ability to immobilize credits it would mean that credits could be sent bi-directionally from Toucan back off-chain, creating price parity.
“This will be very positive for the on-chain markets,” he said. “
Schmitt is also aware of Carbon Plan’s paper on zombies. He points to a post from Toucan called ""Raising Standards in the On-Chain Carbon Market"" that outlines the protocol’s filtering plan to only offer credits less than 10 years old.
“The obsession over age isn’t necessarily what’s correct here … if you took a climate action one year, it’s the same action the next. It’s not going to be different,” he said. “The issue with these credits is it's questionable whether these projects needed the funding from carbon credits to get going.
“But it’s an issue we inherited from Vera.”
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Ether, DeFi Under Pressure, Fmr Binance Exec on Launching Crypto Fund Amid Market Downturn
JJ Kinahan of Tastytrade joins ""First Mover"" to provide his crypto markets analysis as investors brace for more pain amid Fed rate hike pressure. Former Binance executive and co-founder of a new crypto fund Old Fashion Research Ling Zhang explains how the firm plans to spur crypto adoption in emerging markets. Plus, Chris Blec shares insights into the state of decentralized finance (DeFi) projects after the LUNA abd UST collapse.
Terra’s Mirror Protocol Allegedly Suffers New Exploit: Community users are raising the alarm about a possible bug in the LUNC pricing oracles.
Letters to Layer 2: We Still Know Nothing About the Metaverse: Will the metaverse be expensive to use? Will there be more than one? Who, ultimately, is responsible for building it? CoinDesk's Daniel Kuhn explores the questions.
India 'Fairly Ready' With Crypto Consultation Paper, Govt. Official Says: India has not yet finalized crypto-specific legislation.
Former Binance Execs Create $100M Fund to Spur Crypto Adoption in Emerging Markets: Old Fashion Research was formed by Ling Zhang and Wayne Fu, previously Binance's vice president of M&A and head of corporate development respectively.
Christine Lagarde Defends Massive ECB Interventions, Says Her Son Trades Crypto: The ECB president appeared on Dutch talk show ""College Tour"" last weekend.
Solana, Dogecoin Tokens Dip as Futures Suggests Bearish Sentiment: Choppy trading in broader markets failed to temper a gradual dip in major cryptocurrencies, with some sliding as much as 8% in the past 24 hours.
Circle Asks US Fed Not to Step on Its Toes by Launching a Digital Dollar: The public is already served well by private-sector tokens, the USDC stablecoin issuer said in a comment letter to the central bank."
147,328,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/27/we-need-to-talk-about-exchanges-that-sell-you-coins-like-ust/,We Need to Talk About Exchanges That Sell You Coins Like UST,"How much responsibility should they have, legally and morally, for projects that fail spectacularly?",2022-05-27,"Happy Friday readers, David Z. Morris is filling in for Michael Casey today.
CoinDesk Editor-in-Chief Kevin Reynolds alerted me this week to a striking Linkedin post by a Coinbase (COIN) staffer. In the post, apparently now deleted, the Coinbaser wrote in part that it’s “crazy to me how much market value sits in these (probably) useless projects,” before listing a half-dozen tokens including dogecoin (DOGE), bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum classic (ETC), shiba inu (SHIB), litecoin (LTC), bitcoin SV (BSV) and bitcoin gold (BTG).
Now, plenty of people would take issue with the idea that bitcoin cash, ethereum classic or even dogecoin are “useless.” But broadly, such sentiments wouldn’t sound out of place coming from any random account on Crypto Twitter.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The catch, of course, is that here they’re coming from a Coinbase staffer – and Coinbase makes money from the trading of “useless” bitcoin cash, ethereum classic, dogecoin, shiba inu, and Litecoin.
To be clear, I think it reflects both good morals and good strategy that Coinbase staffers are opinionated on social media. In this industry, it’s a crucial way to keep up to date and test ideas. Employees putting their critical thinking skills on display is also good branding.
But the post raised a much larger point: Do crypto exchanges like Coinbase have a responsibility to customers when they choose what tokens they offer for sale? Should exchanges warn customers about projects or tokens regarded as questionable by their own staff? Or is an exchange’s role more neutral, simply listing tokens and letting customers make their own choices?
That’s a particularly pressing question in the wake of the collapse of the Luna ecosystem with the depegging of the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin. There have been unsubstantiated Twitter rumors of a class action lawsuit that would target exchanges that sold the LUNA or UST tokens. That group includes many centralized custodial exchanges around the world and several in the U.S., including Kraken, Binance US, and Gemini.
Coinbase didn’t sell LUNA directly, but did offer the UST stablecoin as well as “wrapped LUNA” (wLUNA) bridged to Ethereum (for, I’m sure, perfectly sound reasons). Very much to its credit, Coinbase also does not offer trading in bitcoin SV, bitcoin gold, or dogelon mars (ELON), the other tokens the Coinbase staffer called out.
Read more: David Z. Morris - Let Terra Die
You might not think it makes much sense to sue an exchange for selling you a token that collapses – as I’ll say once more for those in the back, any cryptocurrency at all is a hugely speculative investment, and this could all go to zero tomorrow. But exchanges spent much of the past two years making Super Bowl ads promising that crypto is the future, so you can at least empathize with someone who feels ripped off.
You might expect there to be a bright-line legal or regulatory answer to this question, but it’s actually somewhat unclear. That’s partly because many of the crypto assets Coinbase offers are in a gray zone relative to securities law. So a lot of the rules regarding the responsibilities of financial intermediaries for stocks, for instance, wouldn’t straightforwardly apply to an entity performing the same role for crypto-assets.
Still, without claiming any rigorous legal implications, related securities rules are interesting to consider. For instance, it’s well known by now (I hope) that a securities broker does not have a fiduciary duty to buyers of securities. Brokers represent themselves or their broker company’s interests, not yours. A certified financial advisor (CFA) is legally supposed to be in your corner, but not a broker.
However, brokers do have a lighter duty to customers. FINRA rules say that any recommendations made by a broker must be broadly “suitable,” based largely on the customer’s risk profile. Again, this applies explicitly to securities, and the status of tokens on Coinbase is largely indeterminate, but it certainly seems like a reasonable standard.
There is a further crypto complexity to all this. I’ve been talking about brokers while Coinbase is best known not as a “broker” but as an “exchange.” Because crypto is so retail-centric, exchanges are often effectively also brokers, selling assets directly to customers.
It’s also clear that crypto exchanges have long been regarded in some sense as arbiters of project quality. It’s less true now, but for many years a token earning a listing on any exchange would celebrate it as validation. A Coinbase listing in particular almost always generated a “Coinbase bump,” or a price runup after listing.
It’s a stretch, but that certainly makes a listing sound a little bit like a broker’s “recommendation.” At least, that’s an argument a plaintiff might make in a consumer protection case. Exchanges also regularly do things like write explainer blog posts about specific tokens, or about technological concepts linked to tokens. Are those “recommendations?” (This may be one reason the Nasdaq website runs third-party news content instead of just publishing promotional materials about stocks.)
Read more: Daniel Kuhn - UST Won't Be the End of Algorithmic Stablecoins
Because of this ambiguity, crypto exchanges are perhaps uniquely exposed to customer anger over losses. It’s hard to imagine someone wanting to, say, sue the Nasdaq because Netflix (NFLX) collapsed by 75% (though now that I’ve written it, I’m certain someone will). Partly that’s because nobody buys Netflix stock from the Nasdaq, but through Fidelity or another broker. But if you bought UST in April and then watched it evaporate, you know it’s Coinbase or Kraken that have your money today.
And now we get back to the FINRA broker rules. A broker/dealer does not have a fiduciary duty to customers but must meet a lighter standard of “suitability,” a general matching of risk profile to a customer. For crypto exchanges, this seems close to a reasonable standard for responsible behavior, whenever the U.S. Congress gets around to writing some of those down.
But the case of UST would seem to challenge even this lighter standard. Can any asset be considered “suitable” for even the most frothing risk taker when any monetary finance expert could have confidently predicted its failure? When it’s the fifth version of the same experiment to fail exactly as predicted?
How about when an exchange’s landing page for a token uncritically echoes the creators’ false claims – for instance, that it’s “stable”? Or how about when the venture arm of the exchange invested in the group behind the token the exchange profited from trading before it went to zero?
Well, then you have what in the legal profession is known as an “ethical morass.” It’s just the sort of thing courts specialize in untangling."
148,42,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/29/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-extends-losing-streak-new-lunas-crash-like-old-lunas-stepns-china-dilemma/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Extends Losing Streak, New LUNAs Crash Like Old LUNAs, Stepn's China Dilemma","Bitcoin was headed for a ninth-straight weekly loss, a record. Terra delivered its new LUNA ""revival"" tokens, which crashed. Stepn has plenty of company among firms making changes to accommodate Chinese data-protection laws.",2022-05-29,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin traded higher but was poised to notch a record ninth straight weekly loss. Prices for Terra's new LUNA tokens crashed nearly as soon as they launched.
Insights: Stepn has drawn the ire of Chinese regulators.
Technician's take: BTC's volatility could rise, especially if another price breakdown occurs.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,243
Ether (ETH): $1,805
Bitcoin heads for record ninth weekly loss
Bitcoin was poised to end the week in the red, which would extend the losing streak for the largest cryptocurrency to a record nine weeks. Until recently, bitcoin had never gone through more than six weeks in a row without a positive return, in a trading history going back to the early 2010s.
So the sentiment leans grim amid light trading on a holiday weekend in the U.S. Just in May, bitcoin has descended to about $29,400 from about $37,600.
""If it's able to break through $30K, it may make a run,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, told CoinDesk in an email. ""But if it continues to be pressured down by bearish sentiment, it could fall to its next support line around $25K.""
Price crash mars Terra's 'LUNA 2' airdrop
What was billed by the badly bruised Terra project as a ""revival"" looked more like a redux over the weekend as new LUNA tokens were issued and promptly plunged in value.
A key element of Terra's plan was to deliver new LUNA tokens to holders of the project's now vastly depreciated UST stablecoins as well as to holders of the older, existing LUNA tokens. The older tokens have now been converted into ""LUNA classic"" under the trading ticker LUNC; as of press time the market capitalization for those legacy tokens was around $700 million, down from about $40 billion fewer than two months ago.
It's not entirely clear what the LUNC tokens will be used for, though, because most Terra developers are now expected to move activity over to the newly launched replacement chain – that is, if they don't get recruited by other blockchains.
The new LUNA tokens initially traded on May 28 around $17 but tumbled soon afterward and by late Sunday were changing hands around $5.28, according to the website CoinGecko.
On Twitter, some commenters complained of being confused by it all while others vowed to immediately cash out of any and all Terra-related tokens.
Bought my first lambo thanks to $LUNA pic.twitter.com/soryDjU8l9
(Friday's prices.)
S&P 500: 4,158 +2.4%
DJIA: 33,212 +1.7%
Nasdaq: 12,131 +3.3%
Gold: $1,853 +0.03%
Stepn has drawn the ire of Chinese regulators
What do Apple, Tesla, Didi and Stepn have in common? They’ve had run-ins with China’s regulators on how they handle data.
Stepn, which bills itself as a move-to-earn game, announced Friday that it is blacklisting players with a Chinese IP address from using the app’s GPS functionality. Within the game, players earn crypto by walking, jogging or running, which requires use of the phone’s GPS receiver to track distance. Without the ability to use this, the game and the app are now useless.
China’s Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) regulates how firms handle and process the data of Chinese nationals and has been compared in structure to the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This complements the country’s Data Security Law (DSL), which regulates the export of data, particularly what it defines as sensitive data, including location information.
As per the DSL and PIPL, exporting sensitive data isn’t banned, but by default it should be stored locally in China. Should there be a need to export said data, it would have to undergo a security assessment by the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), which regulates web-based business and would likely need to be anonymized.
Stepn said it never did business in China, and records show it's headquartered in Australia. But like the GDPR, China’s data rules are extraterritorial. Firms can be penalized if they handle data that originated in China, even if the firm is based abroad. This would be of particular concern to companies that have Chinese nationals on their team as they could face trouble when re-entering China.
Of all the firms to be hit with compliance measures around this law, Stepn is the smallest. Apple and Tesla have both built data centers in China in order to comply with these regulations.
Ridesharing app Didi found itself in a tight spot regarding compliance with these rules.
Didi is delisting from the New York Stock Exchange after Chinese regulators expressed concern with how much data was potentially being made available to other countries. In the end, authorities blocked the app from China’s app stores and prohibited new users from signing up. Didi reached a compromise with regulators by promising a Hong Kong listing after its removal from U.S. exchanges, but the company is still waiting for regulators to give it a green light to return to business as usual.
Chinese regulators’ outsized interest in Stepn stems not only because crypto is involved but because of problems that Strava, another fitness app, created.
Strava, which doesn’t have a crypto component, is the must-have social network for athletes and fitness freaks. But researchers found that Strava sits on a treasure trove of location information about its users’ movements. By harvesting data from public achievement boards, researchers were able to find social media profiles and create a “pattern of life.”
Worse, many military personnel are avid Strava users. Thus, the app’s achievement boards and heat maps have given away the locations of military bases and the presence of U.S. soldiers in locations that weren’t previously announced.
So perhaps Chinese regulators have a point. Fitness tracking apps are known to be problematic from a privacy perspective, and for Beijing the crypto angle just makes it worse.
Bitcoin Faces Resistance at $33K; Support at $22K-$25K
Bitcoin (BTC) has traded below the $33,000 resistance level last week, although price action has stabilized within a tight range. That could point to an increase in volatility, similar to what occurred earlier this month.
BTC was down by about 3% over the past week and has outperformed most alternative cryptos, which suggests a lower appetite for risk among traders. Typically, in down markets, BTC declines less than alts because of its lower risk profile.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the weekly chart is the most oversold since March 2020, which preceded a strong crypto rally. This time, however, the deterioration in long-term momentum suggests limited upside in BTC.
There is growing risk of additional breakdowns in price because of negative momentum readings based on weekly and monthly price data. If a volatile down move occurs, initial support is seen at $25,000, which is around the May 9 price low. There is additional support at the 200-week moving average, currently at $22,061, which could stabilize price action.
A more conclusive downside target would be $17,673, which is roughly 78% of the prior uptrend from March 2020 to November 2021. That price level would also result in a roughly 73% peak-to-trough decline, which could signal capitulation. Bitcoin declined by 83% from its all-time high around $19,890 during the 2018 crypto bear market.
Memorial Day weekend holiday in the U.S.
10 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 p.m. UTC): European Commission business climate (May)
10 p.m. HKT/SGT(2 p.m. UTC): European Commission consumer confidence (May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Markets Not Moving Much but Stepn Is; Co-Founder Explains the Play-to-Earn Game
Bitcoin were still stuck in a range and ether remained down after the top cryptocurrencies both lost pivotal support levels. Why is sentiment still so weak for the broader crypto markets? Urs Bernegger of SEBA Bank joined ""First Mover"" to share his crypto markets outlook. Plus, Stepn co-founder Yawn Rong explained the popular ""move-to-earn"" game.
Thoughts From Davos: The crypto industry showed up in force at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting.
Dogecoin Jumps on Elon Musk SpaceX Tweet: The Tesla CEO said merchandise for his space exploration startup could soon be bought using the meme cryptocurrency.
Ether Accounts for Almost Half of $520M Liquidations Amid Weak On-Chain Data: Traders of ether futures saw liquidations nearly double those of bitcoin in an unusual move.
Nansen Research Debunks Single 'Attacker' Myth in Terra's Collapse: The terraUSD stablecoin collapsed for one reason: Big holders didn't trust it.
Today's crypto explainer: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
Other voices: This eclipse-like event is why bitcoin could reach $100,000 by next year, says forecaster who has made prescient calls
""Currently, stablecoins are only used on crypto exchanges, not in mainstream payments systems. But it isn’t necessary to make them legal tender for them to be used for mainstream payments. The U.K. has a fast, cheap, comprehensive e-payment system to which banks are the gateways. The vast majority of payments in the U.K. use this system. Newer technologies such as PayPal can also be used for many retail purchases."" (CoinDesk columnist Frances Coppola) ... ""The week of the terraUSD (UST) collapse was among the most painful weeks in crypto history – and one we’ll reckon with for a long time. It wrought havoc on the crypto market, resulting in billions of dollars in lost value. And while those in Washington, D.C., rightly debate next steps, a smart, thoughtful conversation around potential regulation is critical."" (Blockchain Head of Policy Jake Chervinsky, for CoinDesk) ... ""The price for regular gasoline in California has already risen to more than $6 a gallon, and it is virtually impossible to find gas for under $4 anywhere else. Nationwide, prices have risen by nearly 50 cents a gallon over the last month. The war in Ukraine is the most immediate cause for the jump in prices as global refiners, tanker companies and traders shun Russian exports, forcing up to three million barrels of oil a day off the market. Energy traders have also bid up oil prices in the expectation that Western governments will impose even tougher sanctions on Russia and its energy industry. (The New York Times)"
149,9,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/30/terras-mirror-protocol-allegedly-suffers-new-exploit/,Terra’s Mirror Protocol Allegedly Suffers New Exploit,Community users are raising the alarm about a possible bug in the LUNC pricing oracles.,2022-05-30,"Decentralized finance (DeFi) application Mirror Protocol, which is built on Terra, is allegedly suffering another exploit, according to pseudonymous “Mirroruser,” who posted on the Terra Research Forum on May 28. It was amplified on Twitter by “@FatManTerra” Monday afternoon.
According to FatMan, who has been providing commentary on the Terra research forum for the past few weeks, the latest exploit has allegedly drained over $2 million, with the potential for more, due to a bug in the LUNC pricing oracle.
By his account, the buggy oracle is threatening to drain all liquidity pools on Mirror.
Last week, FatMan pointed to previous attacks around the Mirror Protocol.
The Mirror Protocol is a DeFi platform that allows users to create and trade “mirrored assets,” or mAssets, that “mirror” the price of stocks – including major stocks traded on U.S. exchanges.
In October 2021, Mirror Protocol succumbed to a $90 million exploit on the old Terra blockchain, which went unnoticed until last week, The Block reported Monday.
Over the weekend, Terra’s new blockchain was launched, which included an airdrop of new LUNA tokens to users as part of a broader plan to revive the ecosystem, developers confirmed Friday.
Read more: First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Extends Losing Streak, New LUNAs Crash Like Old LUNAs, Stepn's China Dilemma"
150,40,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/31/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-jumps-above-31k-ether-gas-fees-drop/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Jumps Above $31K; Ether Gas Fees Drop,Crypto analysts are starting to ask if the market is finding a bottom after the latest downdraft.,2022-05-31,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: A day after bitcoin completed its record ninth-straight weekly decline, the largest cryptocurrency's price jumped by the most since early March.
Insights: Ethereum's gas fees are at a record low, Sam Reynolds reports.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,646 +8.4%
Ether (ETH): $1,990 +11%
Bitcoin posts biggest daily price rise in two months, as crypto markets rally broadly
Traditional markets were mostly closed in the U.S. on Monday for the Memorial Day holiday, but bitcoin (BTC) didn't rest.
The largest cryptocurrency by market value jumped more than 7% to about $31,500, in its biggest gain since March 9.
The sudden burst higher came as bitcoin had just completed a record nine-week losing streak that took the price down to around $29,400 from $37,600.
Now, crypto analysts are starting to ask if the market is finding a bottom after the latest downdraft.
According to the blockchain analysis firm Glassnode, the recent selling pressure might be easing up. ""The price action appeared to have bottomed for the time being,"" Glassnode wrote Monday in its Uncharted newsletter.
Almost all major cryptocurrencies were in the green on Monday, with Cardano's ADA gaining some 17% and leading the CoinDesk 20.
(Most traditional markets were closed in the U.S. on Monday for an official holiday.)
As motorists complain about gas fees being too (expletive deleted) high, crypto traders are dealing with the opposite: Ethereum's gas fees are at a record low, Sam Reynolds reports.
The average transaction fee is around $3.70 now, according to on-chain data. When the year began that number was between $38 and $52 depending on the chain congestion at the time.
As such, gas-heavy transactions like selling a non-fungible token (NFT) on OpenSea or completing a Uniswap transaction are at all-time lows.
Traders seem to be spooked by the fallout of Terra and have been hesitant about jumping back into the market. On-chain data shows that throughout May there were massive spikes in gas consumption on key dates related to Terra’s decline, and subsequent spikes in activity on Uniswap as traders repositioned to shield themselves from market volatility.
The problem is, they aren’t getting back into the market: Gas is low, Uniswap is (comparatively) idle, and the price of ether continues to trend downward. Ether’s price is recovering, but demand is weak because there aren’t as many active traders at the moment.
While the prices of Solana's SOL and Avalanche's AVAX have begun to recover, the number of daily active users has not. Both of these chains were built in an era of high Ethereum gas fees, so it could be that low gas isn’t driving a rush to their doors. But it's more likely there’s no reason to do anything at all until things stabilize.
One knock-on effect from all of this will be how soon the Ethereum Merge happens. Because without high gas fees, there will be less a sense of urgency in migrating to proof of stake, and with that comes controlled, more predictable fees. What was once expected in June has been pushed off to “the fall” (autumn) and prediction markets are putting that date between October and the end of the year. Let’s see if gas fees stay low and this is delayed again.
Japan Jobs, Industrial Production, Retail Sales: 3:50 p.m. HKT/SGT (7:30 a.m. UTC)
China Manufacturing PMI 5 p.m HKT/SGT(9 a.m. UTC)
U.S. Consumer Confidence Index: 10 p.m. HKT/SGT (2 p.m. UTC )
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Crypto Markets Not Moving Much but Stepn Is; Co-Founder Explains the Play-to-Earn Game:
Bitcoin still stuck in a range and ether remains down after the top cryptocurrencies both lost pivotal support levels. Why is sentiment still so weak for the broader crypto markets? Urs Bernegger of SEBA Bank joins ""First Mover"" to share his crypto markets outlook. Plus, StepN Co-Founder Yawn Rong explains the popular ""move-to-earn"" game.
Terra’s Mirror Protocol Allegedly Suffers New Exploit: Community users are raising the alarm about a possible bug in the LUNC pricing oracles.
Letters to Layer 2: We Still Know Nothing About the Metaverse: Will the metaverse be expensive to use? Will there be more than one? Who, ultimately, is responsible for building it? CoinDesk's Daniel Kuhn explores the questions.
Bitcoin Shows Signs of Bottoming Out After 9 Weeks of Losses: The $29,500 level is acting as major support for the world’s largest cryptocurrency.
India 'Fairly Ready' With Crypto Consultation Paper, Govt. Official Says: India has not yet finalized crypto-specific legislation.
Letters to Layer 2: We Still Know Nothing About the Metaverse: Will the metaverse be expensive to use? Will there be more than one? Who, ultimately, is responsible for building it?
Today's crypto explainer: What Is Avalanche? A Look at the Popular ‘Ethereum-Killer’ Blockchain"
151,329,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/05/31/first-mover-asia-tether-is-quiet-about-its-bankers-will-it-affect-its-peg/,First Mover Asia: Tether Is Quiet About Its Bankers. Will It Affect Its Peg?,Tether has relationships with a number of banks but won't say much more; bitcoin rises slightly.,2022-05-31,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and a few altcoins had a good day; ether was down.
Insights: Tether is honoring 1:1 peg redemptions – so far.
Technician's take: Buyers are reacting to oversold conditions, although upside in BTC appears limited.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $31,837 +0.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,947 -2.4%
Bitcoin rises, but not ether
Bitcoin continued its recent, mini-rebound on Tuesday, at least temporarily.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was still chugging along near $32,000, the threshold it crossed during midday trading in a follow-up to a U.S. holiday weekend surge. Bitcoin has risen nearly 8% over the last nearly four days. Still, analysts remained cautious about predicting any long-term bounce to the upside amid ongoing inflationary concerns and the prospect of a recession.
""The emerging rebound from the bottom may be self-sustaining at first, as many market participants believe that the crypto market has corrected enough to become attractive for long-term buying,"" FxPro Senior Market Analyst Alex Kuptsikevich wrote. ""However, fundamentals such as halving, soft monetary policy or accelerated adoption are needed for growth to continue.""
Bitcoin was faring better than ether, which spent much of Tuesday in the red and was recently changing hands at about $1,950, a 2% decline. Other altcoins were mixed with SOL and AVAX recently down over 3%, but ADA soaring over 25% at one point amid a a rise in the issuance of native assets on the network and the upcoming Vasil hard fork, a network upgrade expected in June that would increase scaling capabilities. AXS rose more than 15% at one point.
Stocks dropped, breaking a short winning streak as investors weighed central banks' approach to tame rising prices and a decline in the Conference Board's consumer confidence index. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 all fell less than a percentage point.
Annual inflation in eurozone countries climbed in May to 8.1% annually, its highest level since the launch of the euro currency. Meanwhile, the fallout of Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine continues to grow, with eurozone countries discussing how they might help Ukraine evade a Russian naval blockade to help the country export grain, and separately, the possible seizure of Russian central bank assets. Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of energy markets, was trading at over $116 per barrel.
The news was potentially more upbeat in China, where COVID-19 cases plunged below 100 nationwide for the first time since March, and the country's largest city, Shanghai announced plans to begin reopening its economy. And U.S. President Joe Biden met with Fed Chair Jerome Powell and U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen to discuss ways to combat inflation.
In an appearance on CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program Tuesday, Opimas CEO and founder Octavio Marenzi noted that possible Federal Reserve flexibility about a rate hike much later in the year after it raises rates at its next two meetings had ""given crypto markets breathing room to say 'maybe they're going to go back to printing more money more rapidly.' That's helping crypto in the very, very short term. But I think we're likely to be disappointed in that in the long term.""
S&P 500: 4,132 -0.6%
DJIA: 32,990 -0.6%
Nasdaq: 12,081 -0.4%
Gold: $1,838 -0.7%
Tether’s various banking relationships don’t matter until we know the whole picture
The Financial Times has a story this week about ""some"" of Tether’s $73 billion in reserves being stored at a relatively obscure Bahamas bank called Capital Union.
The bank has around $1 billion in assets, so only a small portion of Tether’s reserves could be stored there. Historically, Tether has been something of a banking vagabond; it initially opened accounts in Taiwan (and this is the likely subject of a U.S. Department of Justice probe), and when corresponding banking access was cut off Tether moved on to Montreal and Puerto Rico.
None of this really matters, according to Tether – which has declined to fully disclose its banking relationships – because Tether can process redemptions (conversion of its USDT stablecoin to fiat U.S. dollars) upon request. Tether maintains “strong banking relationships with more than seven, eight banks across the world.” This would be as far as the disclosures will go. Indeed, in the aftermath of the collapse of Terra's UST stablecoin, Tether has processed $10 billion in stablecoin redemptions.
But the market would disagree. In the weeks since Terra’s UST first started showing signs of trouble, Tether has had to fight to maintain USDT's 1:1 peg with the dollar. Circle’s USDC hasn’t had the same problem; in fact, its stablecoin has been pushed above the peg as a result of inbound capital.
Tether’s desire to keep the nature of its banking relationships and reserves secret has already cost it $18.5 million, which is what it paid out in a settlement with the office of the New York Attorney General.
Perhaps Tether believed that if it were totally honest and disclosed its relationships and the nature of its holdings backing its dollar peg, the resulting market chaos would cost it more than $18.5 million. The articles of faith around Tether involve the ability for it to process redemptions, and so far that has held and succeeded in times of crisis – so no need to list out its banking partners and cause unnecessary trouble.
The question is, will this rationale hold, and will USDT’s peg be maintained through this coming bear market.
Bitcoin Relief Bounce Faces Resistance at $33K-$35K
Bitcoin (BTC) broke above a short-term downtrend over the weekend and reclaimed the $30,000 price level. The cryptocurrency is experiencing a relief bounce after several weeks of oversold readings on the charts. Still, resistance at $33,000 and $35,000 could stall the upswing in price.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the daily chart has risen from oversold levels over the past two weeks, which supported the buildup in price momentum. The 14-day RSI is currently neutral and will need to remain above 50 in order to sustain the relief bounce.
On the weekly chart, the RSI is the most oversold since March 2020, which preceded a crypto rally. This time, however, the significant loss of long-term momentum suggests upside could be limited.
For now, price action could stabilize above the $27,000-$30,000 support zone, which could delay additional breakdowns on the chart.
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(0:30 UTC): Japan Jibun Bank Manufacturing PMI
9:45 a.m. HKT/SGT (1:45 a.m. UTC): China Caixin Manufacturing PMI
HKT/SGT(8:30 a.m. UTC); U.K. S&P Global/CIPS Manufacturing PMI
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Amid Soaring Inflation, Cyprus Deputy Minister on Country’s Crypto Regulation Plans
President Joe Biden was slated to meet with Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell as inflation hovers near its highest level in decades. Opimas CEO and founder Octavio Marenzi shared his thoughts on the crypto markets and potential impact from this highly anticipated White House meeting. Plus, Cyprus's Deputy Minister to the President for Research Kyriacos Kokkinos discussed his country's outlook on regulating digital assets.
Singapore to Look at Crypto Use Cases With DBS, JPMorgan and Marketnode: The first stage of ""Project Guardian,"" which is being led by DBS, JPMorgan and Marketnode, will see MAS explore DeFi applications in wholesale funding markets.
Morgan Stanley Says Record Crypto Venture Capital Investment to Slow: Deal activity peaked in December and could fall as much as 50% by year's end, the bank said.
Cardano’s ADA Spikes 25%, Leads Gains in Crypto Majors: Bitcoin showed signs of bottoming out earlier this week, with the broader market adding some 4.4% in the past 24 hours.
Terra's New Luna Token Surges 40% After Listing on Binance: Terra's new luna token has attracted more than $850 million in trade volume over the past 24 hours as it begins to build momentum.
NFT Art Museums Are a Good Idea: The metaverse turns galleries global and helps fund the arts. This article is part of “Metaverse Week.""
Letters to Layer 2: We Still Know Nothing About the Metaverse: Will the metaverse be expensive to use? Will there be more than one? Who, ultimately, is responsible for building it?
Today's crypto explainer: What Is a Stablecoin?
Other voices: First she documented the alt-right. Now she’s coming for crypto. (Washington Post)
Senior [European Union] officials are expected to sign off on the oil embargo in the coming days, raising the intensity of the bloc’s economic retaliation against Russia for the war in Ukraine. Leaders of EU member states said late Monday they had agreed in principle to ban Russian crude and refined fuels that arrive on ships, which accounts for at least two-thirds of imports from Russia. The EU also is set to agree on a ban on insuring ships that carry Russian oil, officials and diplomats familiar with the measure said, a move designed to strangle Russia’s access to international oil markets. (The Wall Street Journal) ... ""With the right policies, the U.S. can transition from recovery to stable, steady growth and bring down inflation without giving up all these historic gains. During this transition, growth will look different. We will likely see fewer record job-creation numbers, but this won’t be cause for concern. Rather, if average monthly job creation shifts in the next year from current levels of 500,000 to something closer to 150,000, it will be a sign that we are successfully moving into the next phase of recovery – as this kind of job growth is consistent with a low unemployment rate and a healthy economy. Things should also look different from the decades before the [coronavirus] pandemic, when too often we had low growth, low wage gains, and an economy that worked best for the wealthiest Americans."" (U.S. President Joe Biden in a Wall Street Journal op-ed)"
152,66,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/05/31/terras-new-luna-token-surges-40-after-listing-on-binance/,Terra's New Luna Token Surges 40% After Listing on Binance,Terra's new luna token has attracted more than $850 million in trade volume over the past 24-hours as it begins to build momentum.,2022-05-31,"Terra's newly minted luna token (LUNA) rallied by 39.41% on Tuesday after the token was listed on cryptocurrency exchange Binance.
At the time of writing, luna 2 was trading at $8.18, with a self-reported circulating supply of 210 million, giving it a market capitalization of $1.8 billion, according to CoinMarketCap.
The token was launched on a new blockchain dubbed Terra 2 following the depeg of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST).
Investors that held UST or luna before the depeg, as well as those who purchased either asset following the depeg, were airdropped the new token with varying levels of distribution.
The old luna token, which is trading at $0.0002, has been re-branded luna classic (LUNC). The new token was part of a revival plan for Terra.
The revival plan, although passed by Terra’s network validators, was pushed live even as results from a preliminary online poll on a hard fork plan found minimal backing among community members.
Some 92% of over 6,220 voters on a previously held online poll voted against the change, with the most popular responses calling for “no fork,” as reported.
Several exchanges supported the airdrop of the new token over the weekend, with KuCoin and ByBit being the first to list it.
Luna 2 initially rose to as high as $30 on ByBit before losing more than 80% of its value in less than two hours."
153,164,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/01/undercollateralized-usdn-stablecoin-needs-tweaking-waves-founder-says/,"Undercollateralized USDN Stablecoin Needs Tweaking, Waves Founder Says","“We have to work on the algorithm” after several depeggings from the dollar, Sasha Ivanov said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program.",2022-06-01,"The algorithm powering the Waves protocol’s neutrino USD (USDN) stablecoin needs to be adjusted in the wake of two recent depeggings from the U.S. dollar, founder Sasha Ivanov said Wednesday.
“We have to work on the algorithm,” Ivanov said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program. “And what happens now is kind of inevitable, which is just a test of the whole system.”
USDN is dollar-based stablecoin backed by the protocol’s waves tokens, which are locked in smart contracts to mint USDN. USDN redemptions have the opposite effect, destroying the stablecoin to unlock the waves token supply. The idea is to keep USDN’s price steady at $1 per token. The risk is that there may not be enough collateral to back redemptions during a crisis, which is what happened to Terra’s UST stablecoin and luna token last month,
In April, USDN lost its $1 peg and fell to 83 cents, while the WAVES token that backs the stablecoin fell to $22 from $50 within days amid a price manipulation scare. That depegging wiped out nearly $200 million in USDN’s market capitalization. In May, USDN once again fell when UST’s collapse rippled through the stablecoin world, this time bringing USDN's price to 88 cents.
Ivanov said that “some people made a lot of money with waves crashing.”
Ivanov was asked how Waves was different from Terra, whose UST algorithmic stablecoin and luna token crashed in May, wiping out $60 billion in market value. Neutrino’s protocol has “similar mechanics” to Terra, “but (is) different,” he said, citing restrictions on how many redemptions users can get in one day.
Both projects were inspired by the Basis protocol, an algorithmic stablecoin that was ultimately shut down because of its potential use as a security, he added. (Luna founder Do Kwon appears to have tried to revive Basis at one point under a pseudonym before starting Terra, as reported by CoinDesk).
Read more: Algorithmic Stablecoins: What They Are and How They Can Go Terribly Wrong
Ivanov said a group of developers are making adjustments to USDN but emphasized that nothing at the moment has been changed. One change that is needed, he said, would be to “create an incentive for people to recapitalize USDN because guarantee incentives are not sufficient.”
Ivanov said USDN doesn’t have sufficient backing, and likened it to fractional reserve banking in traditional markets, saying that “banks have been working with fractional reserve setup for centuries and they're doing fine.”
Nonetheless, he said that “it's better to be fully backed and have over-capitalization.""
USDN was recently trading at a 1% discount to the U.S. dollar.
“This is the beginning of the process, and I think it will result in the emergence of a very stable, stablecoin,” Ivanov said.
As part of the process, Waves has released a master DeFi Revival Plan to restore user confidence and protocol functionality.
“We have developers that are trying to make the stablecoin very stable,” Ivanov said. “It’s a very natural process, and we will be better off once we have come out with some better algorithms.”"
154,98,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/01/ftxs-harrison-says-stablecoin-demand-will-survive-terras-collapse/,FTX’s Harrison Says Stablecoin Demand Will Survive Terra's Collapse,Subtitle not found,2022-06-01,"Without a doubt, 2022 has put the crypto industry through a stress test. Bitcoin hit a low price not seen since 2020, the industry’s market cap dropped to $1.2 trillion from $3 trillion five months ago, and what was one of the most popular crypto assets, Terra's LUNA token, is now effectively worthless.
Many newbie investors might ask what all of that means. Is crypto really worth nothing, as European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde said, or is now a buying opportunity?
According to Brett Harrison, head of FTX.US, it's a mix.
“So much capital has moved into the private equity space in crypto,” he told CoinDesk last week on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum’s annual summit in Davos, Switzerland. “There are a lot of teams that are building and creating new infrastructure, building out new projects, that we're probably going to see a lot of that investment come back over time.”
In a wide-ranging interview with CoinDesk, Harrison talked about the Terra and LUNA crash, if crypto exchanges should act as a gatekeeper for assets that don’t look promising and what competition can be expected from traditional exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange that may offer more than just bitcoin and ethereum in the future.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
CoinDesk: Do you think crypto traders are going to rely less on stablecoins? What would be the alternative for the crypto industry?
Harrison: No, I don't think we're going to see less demand for the use of stablecoins and crypto. This word stablecoin is used in a lot of different contexts to mean different things. The Terra stablecoin is not a stablecoin at all. It's like an auto rebalancing structured product backed by a volatile asset, and it's basically a subsidized peg. There's too much of a run on that asset if the asset is too volatile, so that was never really going to last forever. It's very different from USDC. Most of the underpinnings of DeFi (decentralized finance) and even for centralized finance come from these fiat-backed stablecoins, which I don't think are a risk at all compared to something like Terra.
You were saying that UST basically was never going to be able to be what it was intended to be. What is your role as an exchange as sort of a gatekeeper for projects like Terra and coins like LUNA where they're sort of unproven and thus carry lots of risks?
On traditional equity exchanges, on futures exchanges, on commodity exchanges and on crypto exchanges, you have assets of various degrees of volatility. What's important is the disclosure of risks that come with it. UST was a completely open crypto. The code for what was actually going on there was completely open source, everyone knew exactly how it worked. It was a subsidized peg. There was no lack of transparency there, and everyone understood there was risk in the asset itself. I mean, to be able to offer a 20% yield on a token, that sort of very high yield doesn't come without risks. It brings up an interesting question as an exchange, whether it is our job to protect investors from having any sort of risk or volatility. We screen out assets all the time that we think aren't legitimate or don't actually have transparency or are a long-term value in that way. It's a fine line for us to decide whether we want to cross or not, but the most important thing is disclosure, and it's why we think it's so important for there to be regulation around stablecoins to make sure that if someone wants to call themselves a stablecoin, it actually is a stablecoin and not this sort of risky asset.
Do you think that there's going to be a regulatory framework on what can be listed and what cannot be listed?
There are bills that have been proposed by Congress members that actually talk about, for example, what kinds of assets a stablecoin could hold to call itself a stablecoin. On the listing side, there are many jurisdictions that already have standards for what you can list. For example, even in New York state, the DFS (Department of Financial Services) has a green list of what assets you're allowed to list. We would love to see more clarity from the market regulators in the United States on being able to understand exactly what assets can be listed by an exchange.
Let's talk about markets a little bit. Do you think there is going to be competition between traditional exchanges and crypto exchanges in the near future?
It’s an interesting question. We've seen a number of traditional exchanges talk about getting into crypto-related projects or exchange offerings. I think it's very possible that traditional exchanges might want to get into crypto in that way. I also think the other way could be true as well. We launched a stocks offering on our platform, and we're not an exchange – we're a broker that's introducing stock trading to exchanges. But you know, we may very well in the future become a competitor to traditional exchanges, as well. We certainly are in the derivatives space.
Are you afraid of that competition in the future?
We're not afraid of the competition; we welcome the competition, but there certainly is competition, and we already see a lot of pushback from the incumbents in the space on our application to the CFTC (Commodity Futures Trading Commission) to enable margin or clearinghouse. So there's definitely a lot of concern from our competitors that we're going to come in and disrupt the space, and that's exactly what we hope to do.
I want to talk a little bit about the correlation between the crypto market and the equities market. Do you see that correlation breaking anytime in the future and if so, what do you think could break it?
Right now, we're in a global environment where assets are going down. That's true across equities, bonds, broad-based futures of various kinds, crypto, and there's a lot of macroeconomic factors going into these down moves. There's also specific things to crypto, for example, in everything that happened with the Terra ecosystem. What we're finding now is, as crypto gains more mainstream adoption, that means that more institutions are allocating percentage of their portfolios of crypto, which means in a down move when they're looking for things to sell, crypto is going to be in the line of fire just like everything else. And so in a doubt, in a sort of violent downturn, all correlations go to one, everything is going down. And so right now, as prices are decreasing across the board, of course, there's going to be high correlation between these assets. As the market starts to turn around, I think we're going to see more growth, idiosyncratic moves between crypto and the traditional equity markets.
Do you see more institutional investors exiting or entering this phase right now during the current market sell off?
That's a good question. I think it's really going to be a mix. We're going to see some institutions that think this could be a perfect time to reenter the market at favorable prices. We're going to see some that feel that even though the sort of contagion of the Terra meltdown was sort of contained, they might see that as a reason to be more skeptical of crypto as a whole asset class and might cool off on investment, whether that's public or private investments. So we are going to see a mix for that over time, but in general, so much capital has moved into the private equity space in crypto. There's a lot of teams that are building and creating new infrastructure, building out new projects that we're probably going to see a lot of that investment come back over time."
155,271,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/01/how-to-make-money-from-the-crypto-backlash/,How to Make Money From the Crypto Backlash,Welcome to the hype-disappointment-devastation-education-conviction-hype cycle.,2022-06-01,"In the wake of a more than 50% price drawdown in major cryptocurrencies and the collapse of some huge financial experiments, public sentiment on crypto has done a predictable 180 degree turn. It happens every few years: A crypto price bubble draws in a new wave of speculators, many of them get burned after making bad bets on technology they don’t fully understand and sentiment swings hard the other way. We’ve gone from the era of Davey Day Trader doing cute things with dogecoin to surgeons in Massachusetts losing their life savings on luna.
True, blue chip tech stocks like Meta and Netflix have lost nearly as much as BTC in dollar terms over the last year, but we’ll set that to the side. The crypto backlash is here, and it’s taking extremely familiar forms. Jackson Palmer, who initially created dogecoin as a performance-art critique of crypto, is making a new round of skeptical declarations. Molly White, founder of the anti-crypto blog Web3 is going just great, is getting profiled in the Washington Post. The skeptical “Crypto Critic’s Corner” is suddenly one of the top technology podcasts in the world.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
And good for all of those largely constructive and incisive critics. Having a healthy presence of informed critical voices is a plus, not a minus, for any serious emerging tech sector. But the broader backlash is going to produce much more worrisome nonsense, including its own set of evasions and misrepresentations.
Chelsea Manning provided a sterling example in an interview published Tuesday in which she did an awkward crabwalk around the word “cryptocurrency” when describing her work for a project called Nym. Manning described herself as a “crypto skeptic,” and attempted to explain how her project that uses a blockchain to supposedly preserve privacy isn’t part of that industry. But Nym has a token … which incentivizes network maintainers … and, look folks, it’s a cryptocurrency! Chelsea Manning is helping start a cryptocurrency and that’s actually fine!
Manning is a champion of privacy and democracy, a person we should all look up to for a few reasons, and it’s heartbreaking she feels the need to do this crypto-skeptic Kabuki while taking checks from a crypto startup. The idea behind the Nym project also seems … debatable. If you’re trying to protect citizens from government surveillance, a blockchain is maybe not the place to start. Sorry.
Getting crypto-shamed by a renowned privacy advocate pitching an iffy token project? That’s the very definition of “down bad.” And the wave of smug skeptics is not going to slow anytime soon, partly because this crash has clearly found its villain and fall guy in the form of Do Kwon, whose $68 billion luna/terraUSD stablecoin pair imploded in early April like a pair of retracting testicles. I say both villain and fall guy because he’ll be remembered not because he triggered the broader market crash (He maybe kind of did.) but because he and his work embodied all the worst excesses of the various screwups, improvisers, hypebeasts and charlatans who made the crash possible.
See also: Crypto Hype Cycles and You | Opinion
In previous years, that dunk-tanker might have been Mark Karpeles of Mt. Gox or Gerald Cotten of QuadrigaCX, but this time, after crypto reached levels of public exposure it has never seen before, it’s Do Kwon. He’s going to be all over TV for months. Having such a living embodiment of egotism, venality, recklessness and stupidity standing in for “crypto” as a whole is going to make things measurably worse for the industry. (And you should absolutely be mad at him about this, in addition to everything else.)
It’s going to be a rough stretch, and nobody actually knows how rough or for how long. Many of us have seen this show before. While there are variations, the crypto retrace cycle has repeated four or five times now. Each time, the same behaviors crop up as crypto goes from mania-of-the-month to whipping boy. The good news is, the retreating tide also presents opportunities.
But the thing is, people will continue to enjoy taking investor money. Considering signals like Andreessen Horowitz’s new $4.5 billion crypto investing fund, a decent amount of capital may still be on offer even with public sentiment of crypto in the toilet. So you’ll hear a lot of squirming and doublespeak like Manning’s as people who still want that sweet, sweet crypto cash try to downplay their actual crypto activities.
Manning’s evasion is a close cousin of the all-time great in this category, the argument for “blockchain, not crypto.” This is a meaningless concept because tokens with economic value are fundamental to the design of distributed public blockchains, at least for the moment. But rhetorically, “blockchain, not crypto” is meant to signal that one wants all the cool parts of blockchain tech without the financial volatility.
“Blockchain, not crypto” has in previous downturns been a particularly attractive line for blockchain units within large corporations. Not coincidentally, one way of actually executing on the hollow premise of “enterprise blockchain” is with tightly controlled private networks, which may have some limited long-term promise but nothing remotely resembling the weird transformative implications of public blockchains. It’s a rhetorical feint, meant to trick people who sway with the breeze of shifting sentiment and don’t actually understand crypto at all.
Simply ignoring these craven contortionists is step one of thriving during a crypto winter. Another good move is to try and understand what happened. Why did Terra collapse? Why is SOL down 80% but ETH only 58%? There are actual reasons, and if you learn them now you’ll be better prepared when sentiment around crypto shifts the other direction and the next wave of impulsive swing-buyers arrives.
Another simple to-do thing but one you might not want to hear, is “stop day trading.” There is still downside out there, and no one knows where the market will bottom out. Secure whatever capital you’ve got left and shift focus elsewhere – specifically, to participating in communities, actively using products, developing skills and maybe even building something. Day trading is a sucker’s game even in boom times, but during bear markets it’s truly something to leave to the professionals. Calling yourself a “degen” on Twitter is less fun when your formerly hilarious gambling addiction has left you actually destitute.
See also: A Dictionary for Degens | Opinion
Spending this time learning is a path towards not just minimal self-respect (also, consider showering more) but actual success. Even a level 1 crypto speculator is learning a lot about the space, and at this point in the industry’s growth that knowledge will have value even during a crypto contraction. Prominent people in the industry will become a lot more accessible in the coming months as well, so you can really lay some groundwork for a future career move.
But the most important tip for surviving the crypto backlash is very simple: stick around. The sharply cyclical nature of crypto is its biggest annoyance and opportunity because it provides new entry points for the committed while regularly washing out the dilettantes. Whether you’re a new hire at a crypto company wondering if it’s time to ask Goldman Sachs for your job back or an ambitious newcomer hoping for a break, the biggest mistake you can make is taking your eye off the ball. You never know which way it’ll bounce."
156,35,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/02/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-sinks-below-30k-amid-renewed-risk-fears/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Sinks Below $30K Amid Renewed Risk Fears,"Major altcoins fared worse in Wednesday trading, reversing most gains from the U.S. holiday weekend rally; South Korea takes a harder look at crypto.",2022-06-02,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other major cryptos decline.
Insights: South Korea's government is taking a harder look at cryptocurrencies.
Technician's take: Long-term momentum remains negative, capping upside moves in price.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $29,784 -6.2%
Ether (ETH): $1,818 -6.2%
Bitcoin and Other Cryptos Sink
Investors on Wednesday decided that bitcoin wasn't such a good deal after all – or nearly any other major cryptocurrency, for that matter.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading just below $30,000, a more than 6% drop over the past 24 hours that relinquished much of the gains posted during a U.S. holiday weekend surge. Bitcoin was changing hands at over $32,000 as recently as Tuesday morning as markets responded to the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions in China and the faint possibility that the U.S. central bank might relax its monetary hawkishness much later this year.
All that good faith had faded into the mists by early Wednesday, with investors returning whole hog to the risk-aversiveness that has colored their moves for much of the past eight months. Ether was also down over 7% over the same period, trading at about $1,800. Other major cryptocurrencies sank even deeper with luna classic (LUNC), the new name for the original LUNA on the Terra protocol, falling 61% at one point. SOL and ADA both declined about 12%, while DOT was down roughly 9%.
""Bitcoin's price action today is not entirely surprising,"" Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull, wrote to CoinDesk. ""Not only is it facing pressure from traditional markets, it has also been struggling to breach the resistance zone between $31K-$32K, resulting in a breakdown from the range it set over the weekend.""
Major stock indexes dropped with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 each closing off 0.7% as investors renewed their concerns about high inflation and the prospect of recession. Gold and the 10-year Treasury yield both rose.
At a business conference Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase CEO, and crypto skeptic, Jamie Dimon told investors and analysts the bank would be conservative with its balance sheet, and to prepare for rough economic times. Dimon said he was worried about central bank quantitative tightening and the continued fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine. “Right now, it’s kind of sunny, things are doing fine, everyone thinks the [U.S. Federal Reserve] can handle this,” Dimon said. “That hurricane is right out there, down the road, coming our way.
Bitcoin closed May, a historically strong month, well in the red, although it outpaced altcoins. That reflected investors' preference for the digital asset considered the least risky. Still, BitBull's DiPasquale was skeptical that bitcoin could turn upward quickly. ”Moving forward, bitcoin will need to see significant buying activity and a major sentiment shift for any hopes of a quick reversal,"" he wrote.
S&P 500: 4,101 -0.7%
DJIA: 32,813 -0.5%
Nasdaq: 11,994 -0.7%
Gold: $1,846 +0.5%
South Korea has been a hotbed of interest in cryptocurrencies.
That was clear less than three months ago when South Korea's two main presidential candidates were jockeying to see who could appeal to younger voters as the most crypto friendly.
But the country's lawmakers have been taking a harder look at digital assets in recent weeks, particularly after the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and the luna token that supported it. The UST implosion swept up an estimated 280,000 Korean investors.
According to a report on Tuesday by the Korean news outlet NewsPim, the South Korean government will form a Digital Assets Committee, perhaps as early as this month, specifically to oversee the digital assets market in light of the Terra debacle. The committee will provide criteria for the listing of coins by exchanges, introduce investor protections measures and monitor unfair trading.
The initiative followed widespread calls for the establishment of an entity that could function similar to regulatory agencies that protect stock market investors. That responsibility for crypto currently falls to a range of government departments and watchdogs, such as the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, the Financial Services Commission and the Ministry of Science and ICT (information and communications technology).
Calls for increased oversight of the crypto industry were raised at a National Assembly emergency seminar last week. ""We need to make exchanges play their proper role, and toward that end it is crucial for watchdogs to supervise them thoroughly,"" Rep. Sung Il-jong of the ruling People Power Party said.
How the creation of a crypto-focused committee dovetails with the proposal by Yoon Suk-yeol, the conservative candidate who won the March presidential election, ""to confiscate crypto profits gained through illegitimate means and return them to the victims"" is not clear.
Bitcoin Slips as Relief Bounce Loses Steam, Support at $27K
Bitcoin (BTC) pared earlier gains after buyers took some profits below the $33,000 resistance level. The cryptocurrency could find support, initially at $27,500 and then at $25,000.
The relative strength index (RSI) on the four-hour chart reached oversold levels on Monday, which preceded the current pullback in price. And on the daily chart, the RSI returned below the 50 neutral mark, indicating a temporary loss in upside momentum.
On the weekly chart, bitcoin appears to be oversold, albeit with negative momentum signals. That suggests upside could be limited beyond $35,000.
For now, BTC is roughly one week away from registering a downside exhaustion signal, which previously occurred on June 7 of last year and on Jan. 10 this year. Still, a weekly close above $30,000 is needed to confirm a bullish short-term signal.
If further breakdowns occur, secondary support is seen at $17,673.
Blockchain Fest Singapore 2022
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Opec and non OPEC ministerial meeting
10 a.m. HKT/SGT(2 a.m. UTC): Eurostat producer price index (MoM/YoY/April)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Nansen Analyst on Role of Whales in UST De-Pegging; Will BTC Hold Above $31K?
Nansen principal research analyst Aurelie Barthere joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the firm's research suggesting multiple parties were involved in the collapse of stablecoin terraUSD (UST). Also, Waves founder and lead developer Sasha Ivanov shared his plan to revamp Waves' USDN after that stablecoin depegged twice in the past three months. Plus, Rob Frasca of Cosimo Ventures provided crypto markets insights.
Binance Labs Raises $500M Fund for Web 3, Blockchain Investments: The new fund will invest in cryptocurrency companies in three stages spanning from incubation to late-stage growth.
Polygon Increases KYC Scrutiny of Potential Investments and Grants in India: Polygon is now requiring extensive customer details for prospective partners in India as regulatory scrutiny there grows, according to a source.
Megan Kaspar: Meta-a-Porter Fashion: A pioneer in digital luxury fashion weighs in on the future of wear-to-earn and online photorealism. Kaspar is a speaker at CoinDesk's Consensus festival starting June 9.
Crypto Banking Rules Now Due This Year From Basel Committee: The group cited recent turmoil in pushing ahead with its plans, which previously saw opposition from major lenders like JPMorgan Chase.
Binance-Supported Deal for Forbes to Go Public Via SPAC Is Called Off: Report: Binance had invested $200 million in Forbes earlier this year as part of the plan.
Why You Should Consider Pooling Support Behind DeFi’s PoolTogether: A class-action lawsuit winding through New York’s court system is frivolous and counters crypto’s core principles.
Today's crypto explainer: 5 Principles to Guide Design in the Metaverse
Other voices: The Crypto Bros Are Snapping Up Manhattan Real Estate (The New York Times)
""Shanghai formally ended its two-month citywide lockdown today, cautiously giving free rein to 2.67 million businesses from corner shops to multinational manufacturers to resume operations after the city brought its [COVID-19] outbreak under control."" (South China Morning Post) ... ""Despite the still eye-popping margins, miners are in a tough spot. Most publicly listed mining companies – including industry leaders Riot, Marathon and Core Scientific – have seen their market capitalization plummet by well over 50[%]. Both Riot and Core Scientific have missed their bullish revenue estimates and have conservatively revised their expansion plans."" (Wired) ... ""The Decoupling. The latest iteration of “hopium” for bitcoiners and crypto natives. When it finally inevitably happens, it’ll be up only for Big Crypto and down only for Big Fiat. But what it actually means is a bit funny. The Decoupling is the moment when bitcoin’s price diverges from equities and starts going up when equities go down (and vice versa). The Decoupling is the moment when bitcoin (BTC) and equities become negatively correlated to each other. Bitcoin will go to $1 million a coin and equities will spiral to zero."" (CoinDesk Research analyst George Kaloudis)"
157,38,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/07/why-latin-american-crypto-exchanges-are-doubling-down-on-yield-products/,Why Latin American Crypto Exchanges Are Doubling Down on Yield Products,Subtitle not found,2022-06-07,"Latin America, a region characterized by high inflation and unstable economies, is now among the crypto markets with the highest yield rates.
Regional crypto exchanges offer annual rates of up to 15% for users looking to generate interest on their cryptocurrency investments. That's well above the figures provided by global companies in developed markets, where rates usually reach up to 9% per year.
A search of new customers, reinvestment of raised funds and Latin American users’ rising interest in crypto are some of the reasons for regional exchanges’ aggressive yield rates, several firms told CoinDesk.
In April, Bitso, the leading Latin American crypto exchange, launched an earnings yield feature with 15% rates on the USDC, USDP and BUSD stablecoins and up to 6% on bitcoin. The service is available for the company’s 4 million users in the four countries where it operates, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Colombia.
“Latin America is one of the regions with the highest crypto adoption. That enthusiasm is reflected in exchanges’ yield rates,” Bitso policy head Julián Colombo told CoinDesk.
Read more: Why Brazilians Are Turning to Stablecoins Like Tether
To obtain rates of up to 15% on stablecoins, Bitso uses different decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, including liquidity, mining and staking pools, Colombo said, without disclosing details.
Lemon, an Argentine exchange that reached more than 1 million users in May, offers up to 13% interest on DAI and 12% on USDC.
“In Latin American countries like Argentina, people place the U.S. dollar as one of the currencies in which they store value. That is why they find stablecoins as very attractive alternatives,” Santiago Di Paolo, community and research leader at Lemon, told CoinDesk.
Crypto yield rates in Latin America are higher than those on major U.S. exchanges, such as Hodlnaut, Crypto.com, Gemini, Coinbase or Celsius, which offer annual interest of 5% to 9.45% on stablecoins, according to their web pages.
In October 2020, Buenbit, an Argentina-based exchange with operations in Peru and Mexico, became one of the first Latin American companies to start offering earning interest with stablecoins. The platform provides its 700,000 users annual rates of up to 8.25% on DAI by using DeFi protocols like Compound, Agustín Liserra, chief financial officer at Buenbit, told CoinDesk.
“We decided to give users practically all the returns that DeFi offers, to on-board as many people into the crypto world as possible – and at the same time, to be a competitive and attractive product for users who were already interacting with the crypto ecosystem, Liserra said.
Belo, an Argentina exchange with more than 170,000 users, offers annual returns of 8.5% on DAI and USDC, 5.25% on BTC and 4% on ETH.
“Our user base diversifies, especially in the bull markets. Not only people from the crypto world are joining, but from different backgrounds,” Manuel Beaudroit, Belo’s CEO, told CoinDesk.
Still, Terra’s implosion and the bearishness toward the crypto market has affected Latin American exchanges’ yields.
Buenbit and Lemon used to offer up to 18% annual returns to users who staked UST through Anchor. Now, both companies have renamed former UST to USTC on their apps, but its sale, trade and storage remain suspended.
Both companies have listed the new LUNA token and started sending it to those who had previously invested in luna classic (LUNC) and ust classic, they told CoinDesk.
“After Terra crashed, trust in the crypto ecosystem, in general, was eroded a bit,” Liserra said.
Lemon’s Di Paolo said the collapse of Terra ""triggered a scenario where users are more attentive to studying each project before investing their money and are aware of its progress.”
The Terra debacle not only affected the exchanges that listed the UST stablecoin, but also created mistrust among users throughout the Latin American crypto ecosystem, he said.
Bitso, which didn't list the disgraced stablecoin, received questions from its various users, Colombo said. So did Belo, which also didn't list UST.
“For the way the crypto markets usually behave, in a couple of months, if the market goes up, no one is going to remember this,” Belo's Beaudroit said."
158,199,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/solana-commits-100m-to-support-south-korean-crypto-projects/,Solana Commits $100M to Support South Korean Crypto Projects,"The fund, created by Solana Ventures and the Solana Foundation, will focus on virtual gaming and will invest in NFT and DeFi projects.",2022-06-08,"Solana will pump up to $100 million into South Korean crypto startups as it looks to penetrate a developer market still reeling from last month’s Terra ecosystem collapse.
Two key players in the speedy network’s ecosystem, Solana Ventures and the Solana Foundation, will seed investments and grants “across all Web 3 verticals,” a press release said. But their emphasis will be on courting South Korea’s crypto games development sector.
The weeks-old funding effort puts Solana in direct competition with Polygon, Avalanche and other smart contract platforms all gunning for Korea’s trove of orphaned crypto developers. It’s unclear how many Terra developers will return to the ecosystem after its May implosion wiped out billions of dollars in wealth.
“It's not only due to the drastic crash” in twin tokens terraUSD and LUNA that developers are balking at Terra 2.0, said Jaemin Park, a growth manager at DeSpread. “But also people's perception that the chain has 'key person' risk, as well as doubts that if their dapps would have any meaningful user base since the fundamental community has almost evaporated.”
While the Solana funding will spread across Web 3 projects, it will have special focus on bolstering Korea-based blockchain game developers, according to Austin Federa, head of Communications for the Solana Foundation. South Korea’s gaming sector overall was valued at over $15 billion in 2021. The idea is to harness at least some of that potential for crypto games, too.
“They know how to build stuff over there. Big beautiful games. It’s really something to see,” a source formerly at Solana Labs told CoinDesk.
Solana also plans to get face time with Korea’s developer community via a hacker house planned for early August."
159,44,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/08/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-recaptures-30k-as-crypto-analysts-warn-of-capitulation/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Recaptures $30K as Crypto Analysts Warn of Capitulation,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 8, 2022.",2022-06-08,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off.)
Price point: Bitcoin recaptures $30K, though analysts warn that further declines may lie ahead.
Market Moves: The Wall Street giant Citigroup warns that last month's collapse of Terra's LUNA token and UST ""algorithmic stablecoin"" may have delayed cryptocurrency adoption, Will Canny reports.
Bitcoin (BTC) climbed back above $30,000, a key pivot point, but the price appeared to be slipping in early U.S. trading hours.
Cryptocurrencies were still broadly higher on Wednesday versus 24 hours earlier, with Chainlink's LINK jumping 14% and Cardano's ADA up 11%.
The gains came even as traditional markets struggled, with investor fears rising over ongoing efforts by central banks globally to tighten monetary policy – to contain soaring inflation.
Bitcoin's (BTC) price has tumbled 34% this year as Federal Reserve reserve rate increases and balance-sheet shrinkage have reduced excess liquidity in financial markets.
The European Central Bank (ECB), led by President Christine Lagarde, is scheduled to meet Thursday and is expected to convey its own plans for tightening monetary policy. Money markets are pricing in 1.25 percentage points of ECB interest-rate increases over the rest of 2022, according to the German lender Deutsche Bank.
""Many crypto traders are still nervous about one last plunge,"" Edward Moya, senior market analyst at the foreign-exchange brokerage Oanda, wrote Tuesday.
The analysis firm Glassnode warned Tuesday that a ""full-scale capitulation scenario"" could occur at a BTC price range from $20,560 to $23,600. Blockchain data suggests that bitcoin miners are liquidating some of their holdings in response to a squeeze on profits.
""The highest probability is that the market is within the second and historically final capitulation phase of a bitcoin bear market,"" they wrote.
The giant U.S. bank Citigroup argues in a new research piece that a slowdown in crypto adoption might be one of the biggest consequences from Terra's collapse, Will Canny reports for CoinDesk.
Last month's price crash in Terra's LUNA tokens (since renamed LUNC) and the crash of the ""algorithmic stablecoin"" UST below its $1 peg wiped out at least $40 billion of market value.
According to Citi, nagging concerns about stablecoins generally have led to outflows from Tether's USDT. (Fitch Ratings estimated Tuesday that the market capitalization of all stablecoins shrank to $162 billion at the end of May from $188 billion at the end of March.)
Such concerns have most likely compounded declines in crypto markets, the report said.
According to Citi, “tentative evidence suggests a reduction in trading volumes and futures positions but not wholesale declines in investor interest in the space.""
“Volatility has affected user adoption,” the Wall Street giant said.
Link to full story: Citi Says Crypto Market Volatility Has Affected User Adoption
By Oliver Knight
The Osmosis network was halted by core developers and validators at 2:57 UTC following the emergence of an exploit that may have led to about $5 million being drained from liquidity pools.
The bug was brought to light by a community member on the Osmosis subreddit, although the post was deleted by the forum's moderator.
The exploit came to light when a user deposited funds to a liquidity pool before instantly withdrawing it. The value of the withdrawal was unintentionally 50% higher than the deposit.
The team took 12 minutes to halt the chain after the exploit had emerged, according to a Discord post by Osmosis community analyst, RoboMcGobo.
In an update on Twitter, Osmosis wrote: ""Liquidity pools were NOT 'completely drained.' Devs are fixing the bug, scoping the size of losses (likely in the range of ~$5M), and working on recovery.""
The Osmosis token (OSMO) is down 7% over the past 24 hours, according to trades on MEXC.
Link to full story: Osmosis Chain Halted Amid Possible $5M Exploit
Ocean Protocol Leans on NFTs to Drive Decentralized Data Markets Version 4 of Ocean Protocol uses NFTs for more flexible handling and the monetization of curated data sets.
Citi Says Crypto Market Volatility Has Affected User Adoption Concerns about stablecoins following UST’s collapse have exacerbated declines in digital asset prices, the bank said.
Algorithmic Stock Adviser Delphia Raises $60M Ahead of Rewards Token Launch Investors will earn Delphia Data Tokens for sharing personal shopping and social media data with the advisor.
Outgoing French Lawmaker Calls for Fossil-Based Crypto Mining Ban, DAO Legal Status Europe needs to stop dithering and capture the crypto opportunity, Pierre Person said.
DeversiFi Launches Cross-Chain Swaps for Bridgeless DeFi Transactions The DEX aims to eliminate the gas fees and extra steps associated with multi-chain ecosystems, even if it sacrifices network security.
Solana Commits $100M to Support South Korean Crypto Projects The fund, created by Solana Ventures and the Solana Foundation, will focus on virtual gaming, and will invest in NFT and DeFi projects.
Scaling Ethereum Beyond the Merge: Danksharding Danksharding would take a massive step toward turning Ethereum layer 2 networks into first class citizens.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
160,332,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/08/galaxys-novogratz-stays-optimistic-on-crypto-adoption-even-as-markets-languish/,Galaxy’s Novogratz Stays Optimistic on Crypto Adoption Even as Markets Languish,The CEO said he doesn't see a V-shaped market recovery occurring.,2022-06-08,"Galaxy Digital CEO Michael Novogratz said he sees a bumpy road ahead for equity and crypto investors, although he's still optimistic there will be an expansion of crypto adoption and its application in the real world.
Novogratz, whose firm provides financial services and investment management in digital assets, referred to bitcoin (BTC) as a store of value that will remain a “real macro asset.” He spoke at the Piper Sandler Global Exchange & Brokerage Conference on Wednesday.
For crypto and equity markets, Novogratz isn’t banking on a V-shaped recovery. Instead, he predicts a combination of market bottoms, ups-and-downs and sideways movement until a “new narrative emerges” on the macro economic environment and interest rates. The U.S. Federal Reserve increasing interest rates to lower inflation is causing hiccups and unpredictability in economic models, he said, adding that he’s “preparing for kind of a longer battle.”
Of approximately 1,900 crypto-focused hedge funds, Novogratz estimates two-thirds could go out of business.
Even so, Novogratz said he will continue to hire people and isn’t seeing a shortage of talent or excitement in crypto. Galaxy is in a “really good position to build through this downturn,” he said.
“Why I'm still hiring people and optimistic is I see the adoption [of crypto] in real life” and in real applications, Novogratz said. In addition, Galaxy is continuing to sign up more investors.
On the collapse of Terra’s UST stablecoin, Novogratz said the key lesson is to not put all of your eggs in one basket and have proper risk-management protocols. It's also prudent to take some chips off the table along the way, he said.
Read more: Mike Novogratz Ends Twitter Silence, Shares Take on UST/LUNA Crash"
161,43,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/09/sec-investigating-company-behind-terrausd-stablecoin-report/,SEC Investigating Company Behind TerraUSD Stablecoin: Report,"The digital currency collapsed in dramatic fashion last month, functionally losing all of its value.",2022-06-09,"The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is looking into whether Terraform Labs – the Singapore-registered firm that created the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin and luna (LUNA) token – violated U.S. laws regarding how it marketed the crypto coins, Bloomberg reported Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter.
Terra and luna functionally lost all of their value last month. Terraform tried relaunching luna, creating a new token and rebranding the original to luna classic (LUNC).
According to Bloomberg, members of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement are investigating whether investor protection rules were broken through Terraform's marketing of the tokens.
The agency was already investigating Terraform founder Do Kwon in connection with his role in building the Mirror Protocol, which allows users to trade tokens representing synthetic stocks.
Terraform Labs did not immediately return CoinDesk's request for comment. Kwon told Bloomberg that he was not aware of any SEC probes into UST and had not heard from the agency."
162,41,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/10/first-mover-americas-bitcoin-slips-below-30k-as-inflation-hits-new-four-decade-high/,First Mover Americas: Bitcoin Slips Below $30K as Inflation Hits New Four-Decade High,"The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 10, 2022.",2022-06-10,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Bradley Keoun, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights. (Lyllah Ledesma is off.)
Price point: Bitcoin fell below $30,000 after May inflation unexpectedly rose to 8.6%, Helene Braun reports.
Market Moves: Some crypto traders are still getting wiped out – ""rekt"" as it were – from margin calls on Terra-related tokens, including luna classic (LUNC) as well as the newly issued LUNA replacement tokens, Shaurya Malwa reports.
By Helene Braun
The consumer price index (CPI), the most widely tracked benchmark for inflation, rose 8.6% on a year-over-year basis in May, topping expectations that it would decline to 8.2% from April's 8.3%. The core CPI – which strips out food and energy costs – rose 6% year-over-year in May, dipping from April's 6.2%, but more than expectations for a 5.9% increase.
On a monthly basis, the CPI rose 1% in May, ahead of expectations for a gain of 0.7%, and more than tripling April's 0.3% advance. The core rate rose 0.6% in May, flat from April, but higher than expectations for an 0.5% increase.
The unexpected fresh four-decade high of 8.6% in headline inflation is problematic for monetary policymakers who are in the middle of a rate hike cycle, but may have been eyeing a pause at some point later this year. Now the question may be whether the Federal Reserve needs to raise rates by 75 basis points per meeting, rather than the planned 50 basis points.
Bitcoin (BTC) – which along with nearly all assets has taken a major hit as central banks in Western countries have begun tightening monetary policy over the past few months – dipped to $29,500 from $30,000 in the minutes after the report. It remains off by about 65% from its all-time high hit last November.
Link to full story: Inflation Unexpectedly Reaccelerated to 8.6% in May, Hitting a Fresh Four-Decade High
Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments - by Shaurya Malwa
Tokens related to the Terra ecosystem saw volatile trading in the past 24 hours amid legal developments against issuing company Terraform Labs, data shows.
The price of luna (LUNA) gained as much as 30% from $2.65 on Thursday to $3.44 on Friday morning, and then fell steeply even as the broader crypto market remained flat. Luna classic (LUNC) gained as much as 34% before sliding Friday morning, data from CoinGecko shows.
Such volatility arose amid reports of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigating whether Terraform Labs violated U.S. laws regarding how it marketed its tokens.
Futures tracking the two tokens saw nearly $18 million in liquidations while losses on futures of other major cryptos apart from bitcoin and ether remained under the $3 million mark.
The LUNA was issued to holders in late May following the depeg of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) in early May – a move that saw the value of old Luna (now rebranded as LUNC) fall as much as 99.7%. Value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) apps in the Terra ecosystem fell by $28 billion in addition, as reported.
The liquidations marked the highest losses for traders of the new LUNA tokens so far, data shows, with nearly $5 million in losses. LUNC futures, however, saw higher losses at over $12 million, suggesting retail traders continue to prefer LUNC trading over LUNA.
Link to full story: Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments
Circle Agrees to Buy Web 3 Infrastructure Platform Cybavo Circle will invest in research and development related to Cybavo whilst leveraging its development services.
Hop Protocol Airdrops Over 20M Governance Tokens The Hop Protocol airdrop is currently worth around $3.5 million with 37% of users claiming their tokens.
Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments Futures tracking the two tokens racked up nearly $18 million in liquidations over the past day in a higher-than-usual move.
Digital Payments Firm Flexa to Buy Drop Party to Engage With Customers Drop Party uses merchandise drops to connect brands and consumers.
Dragonfly’s Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Bear Market Crypto’s most successful projects have historically been built during downcycles.
Osmosis to Cover Possible $5M Exploit Loss; Chain to Remain Halted for 2 Days The cause of the liquidity pool exploit has been identified and a new blockchain update will be pushed in at least 48 hours.
Fidelity’s Abigail Johnson Reaffirms Crypto Commitment in Bear Market “This is my third crypto winter,"" the U.S. brokerage CEO said at Consensus 2022, looking back on the firm’s trailblazing journey into digital assets.
Grayscale, Bitwise Confident a Spot Bitcoin ETF Will Be Approved Soon Bitwise’s chief investment officer, Matt Hougan, pointed to a progression of approval decisions by the SEC that “ends in a spot bitcoin ETF.”
Today’s newsletter was edited by Bradley Keoun and produced by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher."
163,217,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/10/why-terras-fall-offers-a-unique-opportunity-to-create-a-better-stablecoin-environment/,Why Terra’s Fall Offers a Unique Opportunity to Create a Better Stablecoin Environment,"The right approach, including a constructive dialogue with regulators, can restore trust in stablecoins, which are among the most revolutionary aspects of the crypto environment.",2022-06-10,"No topic in the crypto world has been more prominent in recent weeks than stablecoins. Investors, regulators and crypto service providers, among others, wonder what the future holds for them. As stablecoins have a combined market capitalization of easily over $100 billion, there’s much at stake.
Stablecoins are a cornerstone of the crypto industry. But following the recent troubles of terraUSD's (UST) stablecoin, one of the most widely used algorithmic stablecoins, trust in these assets has eroded.
Changpeng Zhao is CEO of the cryptocurrency exchange Binance, which offers a stablecoin. Zhao is a speaker at Consensus 2022.
The effects of UST's depegging from the U.S. dollar have been reported widely, but a vast amount of misinformation is circulating.
Stablecoins have been among the most revolutionary aspects of the crypto ecosystem. They’ve empowered the unbanked and created a semistable space in an incredibly volatile industry. Stablecoins have also established common ground between central banks, regulators and decentralized players.
Nevertheless, we need to stay grounded. Through informed decision-making, users can reduce their exposure to the wild risks seen with Terra. So while the current atmosphere may seem hostile, we have a unique opportunity to show the world that secure, regulated stablecoins exist.
Stablecoins are incredibly important in the crypto ecosystem. Whether you're a simple ""HODLer"" investing spare change or a veteran trader, you can find a need for stablecoins.
For many in the crypto world, remembering a time without stablecoins is difficult. Creating a successful way to maintain stable value without off-ramping into fiat was revolutionary. Exiting a position into fiat currency can take days and increase costs. With this in mind, keeping value stable and on-chain in a trusted way can hugely improve liquidity.
Read More: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
Stablecoins also bring vital financial services to the unbanked and sufferers of rampant inflation. Rising consumer costs must no longer devour your savings when you can maintain their value with a reputable stablecoin. Closely related are remittances, as family and friends can cheaply and almost instantly transfer money globally with a stablecoin.
I've often encountered the mindset that stablecoins offer a crypto panacea. The top 10 coins and tokens by market capitalization have always maintained a significant stablecoin presence. They've even provided ways to earn tempting, high annual percentage yields (APYs) in the crypto world with a stable asset. It almost sounds too good to be true.
But as we've seen with Terra, the house of cards can quickly collapse. The benefits of stablecoins are immense, but they can be doomed to fail without responsible, regulated mechanisms to support them. To me, there are several issues at play here, and they don't all involve the stablecoin issuer.
First, I want to discuss a crucial point many people don't understand: Not all stablecoins operate with the same principles.
Most large stablecoins available are reserves-based. Some coins, like Binance USD (BUSD), maintain cash reserves that are periodically attested, regulated and guaranteed. Others hold various assets, including commercial paper, bonds and crypto. Even within this category, the ratio of reserves to issued coins can be a contentious topic.
For full stability, a reserve level of 100% should also be maintained. Of all available options, reserves-backed stablecoins typically provide the most user security.
Another commonly used model is algorithmic-based. You'll likely have heard the term recently, as this was terraUSD's (UST) operating model. These coins have little or no collateral backing and use algorithms to incentivize investor behavior. By affecting market demand and supply, an algorithmic stablecoin attempts to maintain its peg.
Terra, for example, tried to peg each coin to the U.S. dollar by being transferable at a 1:1 rate with $1 of LUNA. Converting 1 UST to $1 of LUNA and vice versa would burn the coin you provided, effectively manipulating supply.
Even with the brief description, the cracks are already visible. Pegging to the U.S. dollar through a seigniorage mechanism with your own token is a dangerous position. Acting like a central bank may look tempting, but we already know the limits their real-life counterparts have.
Many people in the crypto industry understood the Terra model’s limitations even before the protocol’s crash. Now Terra’s vulnerabilities are more widely known.
Terra printing money like the Federal Reserve didn't create value; it diluted it for existing holders. Having a small number of reserves also made repegging the stablecoin difficult at best. Also, tempting 20% APY returns on Anchor staking incentivized demand for a stablecoin that had little backing in value.
So with these flaws visible, why was everyone jumping on the Terra train? Consider the following reasons. There was a general misunderstanding. I often wonder if many Terra investors understood what was maintaining its peg and generating such high APYs. As with any investment, you should always fully understand what you're investing in and how it works. To me, education plays a huge role in ensuring this never happens again.
Investors dreamed of creating quick monetary value. Some crypto enthusiasts have critiqued the traditional central bank model and derided it for its inflationary practices. However, when given a chance to operate like a central bank themselves, the blockchain community forgot the lessons from years of economic history, leading to an unsustainable tokenomic model with flawed incentives.
The community overlooked the importance of regulation. While many crypto enthusiasts see regulation as a foe, it can actually be a friend. To me, the recent Terra situation shows how unregulated stablecoins can dramatically fail without regulation.
The regulatory process is not perfect and must change. The relationship between regulators and stablecoin issuers must develop and grow.
An existential fear of stablecoins?
A number of media pundits have inferred that central banks, governments and regulators view digital assets pegged to fiat as an existential threat. This is a misperception. The security of these institutions’ national fiat currencies and sovereignty isn’t at risk. However, this sentiment may have led to a scramble to create central bank digital currencies (CBDC), heightened fears about stablecoins and pushed stablecoin projects out of the market.
Much of this fear is, however, misguided. Not all stablecoins are created equal, and many provide a superior experience through sound reserves, oversight and attestations. A 100% reserve-backed stablecoin is easier for a regulator to stomach than an algorithmic one creating dollar value out of nothing.
As much as regulators may worry about the outcome, the reality is that properly managed stablecoins currently aren't a threat to financial stability.
Read More: The Collapse of UST and LUNA Was Devastating, but There Is Still Hope for Crypto
The crypto community must be willing to engage with regulators, educate them and demonstrate responsible stablecoin models to foster a better understanding. We must also be mindful of regulators’ concerns and learn from their years of financial experience.
As an industry, we can begin to ease regulatory concerns by encouraging a broader debate. While financial stability is essential, it's not the only factor at play here. Greater consumer choice, competition and innovation will improve the stablecoin experience for all stakeholders.
With innovation and competition come new players in the market, but a natural aversion to change can leave regulators reluctant to work with new market entrants. So far, we've seen an approach that tends to prioritize those legacy winners deemed “too big to fail.” This has led to the protection of incumbents in the name of stability. Often, newcomers provide a broader perspective on various topics that regulators have in their sights, including financial crime, financial stability, market integrity and consumer protection.
So what's the ideal situation for a stablecoin? As we already covered, the most reliable stablecoin is fiat-backed. Taking this further, reserves should back the issued asset 100%, be attestable and maintained in cash or cash equivalents. Finally, we can't forget the role of regulators in ensuring these assets maintain high financial standards and provide appropriate backing.
USDP from Paxos is one example that meets all our criteria. It holds monthly attestations of its reserves and guarantees users can always switch between USDP and USD at a 1:1 rate. USDP also has a regulated status through the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS).
To ensure we provided the same safeguards with BUSD, we chose Paxos as our issuance partner. This cooperation provides BUSD holders with the same benefits USDP offers:
A 1:1 secure and compliant USD-backed stablecoin regulated by the NYDFS.
Actual cash and cash equivalent reserves consisting of 96% cash and 4% U.S. Treasury bills.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-insurance. If BUSD is compromised, the reserves are insured and safe. Users don't need to worry about losing any value on their BUSD holdings.
Monthly attestation of the reserves. These reports independently verify the entire BUSD token supply is backed by fiat in U.S. banks held and managed by Paxos.
Read More: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
Terra's situation has profoundly affected the crypto industry in value, trust and reputation. Nevertheless, there is a great opportunity to build back stronger. During the current correction, we have time to develop real applications as a basis for solid growth rather than high APY pipe dreams.
Regulators are even keener to further their dialogue with stablecoin issuers. In a way, the market has separated exceptional from lesser models. We can be thankful for that.
Crypto has developed at such a rapid speed that regulation is still fragmented and lacks harmonization. The situation constantly evolves, and so does our approach to meeting all new requirements.
When it comes to stablecoins, we're proud to lead the way in regulation through BUSD. We're also happy to show the whole industry how they can responsibly issue stablecoins. The recent crash and Terra situation have created an opportunity for us all to cooperate, learn and educate one another. Let's not miss this chance to nurture true stablecoins that regulators and users can rely on and deserve.
Read More: Terra Snapshot Expected This Week. Here’s How 'New' Luna Will Be Distributed"
164,15,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/10/terras-luna-luna-classic-tokens-see-volatile-trading-amid-new-developments/,"Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens See Volatile Trading Amid New Developments",Futures tracking the two tokens racked up nearly $18 million in liquidations over the past day in a higher-than-usual move.,2022-06-10,"Tokens related to the Terra ecosystem saw volatile trading in the past 24 hours amid legal developments against issuing company Terraform Labs, data shows.
The prices of luna (LUNA) gained as much as 30% – from $2.65 Thursday to $3.44 Friday morning – then fell steeply even as the broader crypto market remained flat. Luna classic (LUNC) gained as much as 34% before sliding this morning, data from CoinGecko shows.
Such volatility arose amid reports of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigating whether Terraform Labs violated U.S. laws regarding how it marketed its ecosystem tokens.
Futures tracking the two tokens saw nearly $18 million in liquidations while losses on futures of other major cryptos, apart from bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), remained under the $3 million mark.
The LUNA was issued to holders in late May following the depegging from the U.S. dollar of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) in early May – a move that saw the value of what had been luna (now rebranded as LUNC) fall as much as 99.7%. Value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) apps in the Terra ecosystem fell by $28 billion in addition, as reported.
The liquidations marked the highest losses for traders of the new LUNA tokens so far, data shows, with nearly $5 million in losses. However, LUNC futures saw higher losses at over $12 million, suggesting retail traders are continuing to prefer LUNC trading over LUNA.
Crypto firms Bybit and Binance are currently the only exchanges to offer LUNA futures to traders, while OKX and Huobi offer LUNC futures. OKX, popular in Asia, saw over $9 million in liquidations alone, the highest among its counterparts.
LUNA trades over $3.06 at writing time. LUNC trades just over $0.00007647, with gains falling to 7% for traders in the past 24 hours."
165,10,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/13/binanceus-accused-of-misleading-investors-in-class-action-lawsuit-over-terra/,Binance.US Accused of Misleading Investors in Class-Action Lawsuit Over Terra,"More than 2,000 investors are a part of the class-action lawsuit.",2022-06-13,"“Those of you waiting for the earth to become unstable – I'm afraid you will be waiting until the age of men expires.”
These confident words tweeted by Terra blockchain founder Do Kwon sought to convince crypto investors to put their trust (and money) into terraUSD (UST), a stablecoin that Kwon promised would always stay priced at exactly $1. Unfortunately, Kwon’s confidence was not enough to save UST and the rest of Terra as his entire project dropped to zero.
Now, over 2,000 Terra investors say false marketing is what caused them to lose their money.
In a class-action lawsuit filed Monday in The United States District Court for the Northern District of California, centralized cryptocurrency exchange Binance.US has been accused of misleading investors surrounding the Terra blockchain ecosystem.
The suit marks the first major U.S.-based court filing relating to Terra, whose UST and LUNC tokens wiped out around $40 billion in investor funds when they crashed to pennies last month.
The suit, which was filled by U.S.-based law firm Roche Freedman LLP, alleges that Binance.US marketed Terra’s dollar-based UST as more stable than it actually was. According to the suit, when UST and its sister token luna classic (LUNC) crashed to zero in May, thousands of unsuspecting retail investors were caught completely off guard. Misleading advertising is what the suit says is to blame for those losses.
The lawsuit also alleges that Binance.US is not registered as a broker-deal or an exchange, which may be in violation of securities law after it listed what might be an unregistered security in UST.
The suit is also aimed at Binance.US CEO Brian Shroder.
In a statement provided to CoinDesk, Kyle Roche, one of Roche Freedman's founding partners, said “Binance U.S. recklessly listed and promoted UST as a ‘safe’ stablecoin to those seeking to avoid the volatility of other cryptocurrencies. They, as well as other exchanges that listed UST, should be held accountable.""
Binance.US disputes the allegations made in the lawsuit. ""Binance.US is registered by FinCEN and adheres to all applicable regulations. These assertions are without merit and we will defend ourselves vigorously,"" the company said in a statement to CoinDesk.
While a successful suit would send chills down the spines of some decentralized finance (DeFi) founders and centralized exchange CEOs, it would embolden DeFi advocates who think decentralized tools for participating in crypto finance – rather than centralized exchanges – are necessary to avoid government censorship and burdensome regulations moving forward.
Along with seasoned big-money backers like Hashed and Jump Crypto, the Terra collapse drained the wallets of thousands of unsuspecting retail investors. In the days following Terra’s decline, its largest Reddit forum was filled with accounts of suicides (and above them, extensive resources on how those struggling could find help).
The forum also featured criticism of Terra’s highly vocal co-founder – Do Kwon. Kwon, according to some Terra watchers, is primarily to blame for hyping up the promise that UST would always sit safely at $1. Just as he was making brash assurances around the security of UST, Kwon was building a system that onlookers like Kevin Zhou of crypto hedge fund Galois Capital said was built to fail.
Upon these questionable foundations, Kwon nonetheless promoted the safety of UST (and its luna sister token) ceaselessly across social media – loudly dismissing critics like Zhou. Even as UST first began to wobble off of its $1 peg (just a few days before it ultimately crashed), Kwon tweeted “Anon, you could listen to CT influensooors about UST depegging for the 69th time, Or you could remember they’re all now poor, and go for a run instead.”
Deriding critics with adjectives like “poor” was not out of character for Kwon, but the founder was unusually silent for several days as his ecosystem eventually cratered.
The question now is whether Kwon or his company will ultimately join Binance.US in facing potential legal penalties for their role in promoting Terra.
A government panel is already awaiting Kwon in his native South Korea, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has been nipping at Terraform Labs’ heels for years. Kwon has reportedly been living in Singapore for the last several months, but today’s lawsuit adds to the evidence that Kwon will soon face legal battles around the world.
Even so, Kwon’s Terraform Labs – which held a central role in creating the Terra ecosystem – has yet to face a class-action lawsuit like this one.
Apparently, it won’t have to wait for long.
According to FatMan – a member of the Terra Research Forum and a vocal critic of Terra with a large Twitter following – a suit against Terraform Labs is also coming, and it is likely to look similar to this one.
FatMan helped orchestrate Monday’s suit by organizing a group of 2,000 aggrieved Terra investors who allege they were misled by a number of entities.
FatMan told CoinDesk: ""We will begin by filing mass arbitrations & class actions against the various exchanges. I will be helping them with some outreach (connecting to victims) but I have no real special role in the exchange suits. Then soon after we will file against TFL/Jump.""
On the Binance.US suit, they added: ""Centralized exchanges have become highly accessible to the general public – even my parents use them – and as such, it is virtually a moral imperative for them to uphold a high standard of truth and risk disclosure. Telling people an asset is fiat-backed when it is not is fraudulent.
""Telling people a coin is 1:1 pegged to the US dollar and selling it alongside USDC and USDT without the relevant risk disclosures is scummy. People were roped in with siren calls of 'safe, stable yields' - but no attempt to help them actually understand what they were buying was made. This is morally unconscionable, and, in my opinion, it should be illegal.""
Should the suit succeed, it will prove monumental in defining the legal status of DeFi, which has thus far avoided clear regulations or heavy government oversight.
Moreover, the fact that today’s suit seeks to hold a centralized exchange culpable for a token’s advertising – rather than the organization that launched it – will hold wide implications for the shape of DeFi moving forward. It may portend a world where centralized exchanges are forced to more closely vet the tokens they support on their platforms.
Read more: Why Terra’s Fall Offers a Unique Opportunity to Create a Better Stablecoin Environment
CORRECTION (June 13, 10:20 UTC): Corrects 10th paragraph under ""The Terra crash"" sub-header to say FatMan organized Terra investors against various entities, not just Binance.US.
UPDATE (June 13, 16:26 UTC): Adds statement from Binance.US.
UPDATE (June 13, 17:45 UTC): Adds statement from Kyle Roche"
166,331,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/14/first-mover-asia-what-analysts-are-saying-after-crypto-lender-celsius-paused-withdrawals-btc-drops-below-23k/,First Mover Asia: What Analysts Are Saying After Crypto Lender Celsius Paused Withdrawals; BTC Drops Below $23K,Some observers of digital asset markets criticized the move but others said that Celsius could be protecting user funds; ether plummets 17%.,2022-06-14,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin and other cryptos have a dark day.
Insights: Observers of digital assets react differently to Celsius's announcement to pause withdrawals.
Technician's take: (In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is re-publishing a recent Consensus 2022-related column by CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,209 -16.6%
Ether (ETH): $1,193 -17%
A Dark Day for Bitcoin and Other Cryptos
Investors had their choice of comparatives for describing bitcoin's deep dive on Monday.
Bitcoin sank to its lowest level since December 2020.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization fell to less than a third of its all-time high of nearly $70,000 just eight months ago and less than half of where it perched at the start of 2022.
It was down 16% over the past 24 hours, a rare single-day, double-digit dip, and off over 30% from a month ago when it settled around $30,000 following the collapse of the terraUSD token. It fell for the seventh consecutive day.
By most any measure, bitcoin had a very, very, very bad day.
So did cryptos in general, whose combined market cap tumbled below $1 trillion for the first time since early 2021 amid ongoing inflation fears and a torrent of bad news from various protocols, including crypto lending platform Celsius's announcement that it was pausing withdrawals amid ""extreme market conditions.""
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $22,500, down more than 16% over the past day. As for major altcoins, the question wasn't whether they were in the red but by how much. Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was changing hands at roughly $1,200, off over 17% during the same period and its lowest level since January 2021. CRO was off more than 20% at one point amid news that the crypto exchange would pare about 5% of its workforce, roughly 260 jobs. Wrapped bitcoin (WBTC) and TRX were down nearly the same at that time.
Market analysts had a lot to say about the plunge. Little of it offered immediate comfort.
""It's a storm,"" 3iQ Digital Asset's head of research Mark Connors told CoinDesk in a phone interview.
""Bitcoin bears certainly are in ruckus mode, berating the largest crypto the way a schoolyard bully seeks out for tormenting the same easy mark,"" Uphold financial consultant Rich Blake wrote.
""Sentiment for cryptos is terrible as the global crypto market cap has fallen below $1 trillion dollars,"" Oanda senior analyst Edward Moya wrote. ""Bitcoin is attempting to form a base, but if price action falls below the $20,000 level, it could get even uglier.
‘’As inflation proves to be an even trickier opponent to beat than expected, bitcoin and ether are continuing to get a severe bruising in the ring,"" Hargreaves Lansdown senior investment and markets analyst Susannah Streeter wrote. ""They are prime victims of the flight away from risky assets as investors fret about spiraling consumer prices around the world.""
Cryptos' suffering tracked the hammering of major equity indexes with technology stocks at the forefront of the carnage. The S&P 500 fell 3.8%, re-entering bear market territory – meaning that it has lost 20% of its value from its previous high. The tech-heavy Nasdaq, which hit bear market ground weeks ago, was down a whopping 4.6%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 2.7%.
Even gold, a traditional safe-haven asset, declined by nearly 3%.
Investors will be anxiously watching the U.S. Federal Reserve's two-day meeting, which begins Tuesday and is widely expected to culminate with a 50-basis point interest rate hike as part of an ongoing effort to stem stubbornly high inflation. The latest U.S. Consumer Price Index report showed inflation rising 8.6%, a four-decade peak.
3iQ's Connors noted optimistically that the current crypto spiral was ""within the band of growth"" relative to other steep drops in crypto's 13-plus-year history. ""I wasn't around in 2018 for that $20,000 to $3,000 move, but the playing field is much different now as far as the number of people in it (and) the presidential mandate,"" he said, referring to U.S. President Joe Biden's executive order regarding crypto regulation. ""If you take the band of volatility over the past five years, we're still within it.""
Connors also said: ""The adoption rate the last time we checked both general wallets as well as institutions and mentions in 10-Qs are all at elevated levels. The fundamentals are intact.""
Still, the crypto industry has found itself struggling anew Monday with a now less-certain future. Lending platform BlockFi said it would slice about 20% of its workforce. Crypto.com and BlockFi's cuts followed closely after similar announcements by the Winklevoss twins-led exchange Gemini and Middle Eastern crypto-exchange Rain Financial, among others. On Monday, Binance, the world's largest major crypto exchange by trading volume, paused withdrawals for a brief period.
""As far as support levels, the next few days surely will test digital assets if a faster pace of tightening and more aggressive rate hikes are announced,"" Uphold's Blake wrote. ""For the moment, extreme market conditions and fed policy updates are exacerbating the consequences for crypto assets.""
S&P 500: 3,749 -3.8%
DJIA: 30,516 -2.7%
Nasdaq: 10,809 -4.6%
Gold: $1,821 -2.9%
Analysts Differ on Celsius Pause
Prominent crypto lending firm Celsius paused withdrawals and swap products early Monday, citing ""extreme market conditions” amid a market downturn. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies lost over 12% of total market capitalization as traders responded pessimistically to the latest U.S. Consumer Price Index report showing that inflation continued to rise in May.
Celsius’s announcement followed an April dictum in which Celsius told non-accredited investors that they could no longer transfer funds. The firm’s products are popular among crypto investors, and it offers yields of over 17% on deposits – a rate higher than those provided by most banks.
While retail crypto investors winced over the news, sentiment among analysts and market observers was mixed as some criticized the move while others said Celsius could be protecting user funds.
“Although such a decision is not unusual, as this is not a new phenomenon for centralized financial institutions, it will certainly affect the platform’s users and their desire to use centralized platforms like Celsius,” said Kate Kurbanova, co-founder of risk management platform Apostro, in an email to CoinDesk.
“I think that this decision was made while taking the Black Thursday of 2020 as prices of major cryptocurrencies fell steeply and caused a cascade of liquidations on lending platforms and its users lost their money,” Kurbanova explained.
Kurbanova added that users could choose what risks they consider acceptable, such as risk-facing liquidations and hacks on decentralized platforms but with the ability to withdraw money at any time or use centralized platforms which could be safer from a security standpoint but face a “risk of your assets being frozen for an indefinite period of time.”
Some market observers drew parallels with the implosion of Terra’s terraUSD (UST) stablecoin in mid-May, which caused prices of its related luna (LUNA) tokens to drop nearly 100% and value locked on decentralized finance (DeFi) applications to plunge by $28 billion.
“The broader industry gets very uneasy with the mention of any news or event that can hurt investors, be it retail or corporate following the May episode of Terra’s legacy UST stablecoin collapse,” explained Vadym Synegin, vice president at ecosystem project WeWay.
“Celsius is sending out a message that it is currently insolvent and this is bound to usher in an unprecedented panic withdrawal whenever this access is granted to users. The crypto ecosystem does not respond well to panic events,” Synegin added.
Some analysts opined Celsius could have switched to newer strategies to continue to provide yields to users.
“Finding liquid assets that can pay high returns for $1 billion is not very hard to do; finding liquid assets for $30 billion, whilst keeping returns at such high rates, is almost impossible to do,” said Austin Kimm, director of strategy and investments at Choise.com, in a Telegram chat. “The only solution is to switch off deposits or move into much less liquid assets such as real estate, or crypto mining equipment.”
Meanwhile, Fabio Pezzotti, CEO of crypto investment fund Iconium, said Celsius’s move to pause withdrawals was a preventive measure to help the firm stabilize liquidity on the popular staked ether (stETH) product.
“During the last few days, rumors began to circulate that Celsius had become insolvent due to its high exposure to stETH, the Ethereum derivative by Lido Finance which began to lose its ETH ’peg’ last week,” Pezzotti said in a chat. “Talking about ’peg’ is not totally correct as stETH are derivative instruments collateralized by ETH 1:1. But since they become redeemable only after Ethereum’s merge, stETH’s price is decided by the market, which has determined a discount factor on the early conversion.
“Celsius was holding stETH to provide returns on the ETH deposited by their clients on its platform. The FUD generated by the stETH depeg and the current market conditions have dried up Celsius' on-hand reserves, forcing the company to pause withdrawals to stabilize liquidity. This is a preventive measure, already seen during market crashes, which serves precisely to avoid a total collapse,” Pezzotti said.
The 5 ‘Unsolved Problems’ of Crypto According to Dragonfly’s Haseeb Qureshi
(Editor's Note: In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is re-publishing a column by CoinDesk columnist Daniel Kuhn based on an interview at Consensus 2022.)
Dragonfly Capital’s Haseeb Qureshi thinks there are five problem areas in crypto that you can make a fortune in solving. Those are identity, scalability, privacy, interoperability and UX (user experience).
A former poker player turned venture capitalist and philanthropist, Qureshi looks to blockchain as both a source of revenue and social good.
“The most important thing about crypto is permissionless innovation,” he said. “That’s the idea that you do not need to get a license or a business plan approved. You can just deploy a contract on-chain and it starts getting users.”
See also: Dragonfly's Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Bear Market
And so, Qureshi says, even if crypto has problems, it might prove its utility by allowing anyone to innovate.
At Consensus 2022 in Austin, Texas, CoinDesk asked Qureshi to explain crypto’s growing pains, and how he thinks about its longstanding issues. Here’s what he said (the transcript has been lightly edited for clarity and brevity):
Privacy
When you think about privacy, everything you do in DeFi [decentralized finance] is viewable. We've gotten used to that in crypto, but that's not the way of the future. There will be some trade-off that we can make that is going to be similar to the kind of privacy we expect in the real world that would still give us the auditability that we care about and that makes DeFi, DeFi.
See also: Lunarpunks, Privacy and the New Encryption Guerillas
Interoperability
Right now, you're extremely aware of what chain you're on. You know if you’re on Solana or Avalanche or Ethereum. At some point in the future, almost without a doubt, you will have digital assets and you will interact with applications – and that will be your relationship with [the blockchain].
On the internet, you don't interact with this service or that service. You don't interact with Cloudflare, and you certainly don't give a s**t about TCP/IP. Your allegiance is to your application. So in the future, if you want to do yield aggregation, instead of just looking at Yearn, you’ll look at what's the best yield anywhere in crypto. It will just be like calling out to another server on the internet.
Scalability
The fastest blockchains do fewer than, like, 1,000 TPS [transactions per second] each. You can argue about the margin there, but the bottom line is that none of them do that much throughput today. And for us to really get to world scale, all blockchains need to be much faster, much more scalable and have a much higher throughput. That applies to rollups and the like, too.
You want to get to not just tens of millions of users but hundreds of millions of users. Further, we talk a lot about users but we don't talk much about access patterns. If you want access patterns that look anything like what people do in Web 2, you need much, much, much more scalability.
You could argue that bitcoin is the most used cryptocurrency because it has the most holders. I don't know the exact numbers, but something like 50% of Americans own crypto. I’d guess more than half [of those] only own bitcoin. And maybe there's one transaction those people, who likely bought BTC on an exchange, actually settle on-chain, if that, per year. If that's the case, the access pattern of someone using bitcoin is that one transaction.
But what's the access patterns of someone using the internet? I don’t know how many Google searches I make per day. So a Web 3 user is gonna result in many transactions per day.
Identity
The issue here is having an online identity that can be relied upon. Let's say I want to offer you credit – credit is about your identity, about who you are but also about my recourse. I can only offer you credit if I know that I have a path toward getting it back. If I don’t know who you are and you run away, I'm underwater immediately. There's no recourse.
Related here is bankruptcy. That’s a punishment that survives you and our relationship if you default on the debt. Bankruptcy is one of the most important innovations that we have made in capital markets. It’s very underappreciated in crypto. It’s the way you protect your remaining assets if you cannot pay back all your creditors and how credits can punish you into the future. You cannot do credit without the concept of bankruptcy. But in order to have that, you need Identity. Identity that persists.
See also: Who You Really Are: A Conversation About Pseudonymity With Default Friend
Identity is also important for things like marketing. People don't think about this very often, but when you sign up for Coinbase, they can tell whether you're institution or retail. If you’re retail, they throw a bunch of incentives and charge you an arm and a leg for every transaction. If you're an institution, they don’t have to pay anything to get on board, but they charge you BIPs [bitcoin improvement proposals] because you're price-sensitive. Brokerages make all their money from retail.
In DeFi, I can't tell whether you are retail or whether you are Jump [Crypto, the digital asset wing of the eponymous hedge fund]. The protocol treats everyone the same. A centralized exchange’s margin would f**king collapse. Imagine how much money could be made if DeFi businesses could know who their customers are. Nobody can do it today because there's no notion of identity.
We're investing in a company called Quadrantid that allows you to selectively disclose parts of your KYC [know-your-customer] background. So you can selectively disclose your country or other parameters about yourself that you might want to prove to an application or business. This means you could KYC to receive an incentive, but may not have to.
UX
MetaMask, for instance, is not the most user-friendly way to transact. We've already seen some wallets start to do it much better, like Solana’s Phantom – great wallet experience. Keplr – great wallets. We've been able to learn from mistakes, and I think we're going to see more and more innovation.
U.S. Federal Reserve meeting
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Australia house price index (Q1/QoQ/YoY)
12:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(4:30 a.m. UTC): Japan industrial production (April MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" (from Consensus 2022) on CoinDesk TV:
Senators Lummis, Gillibrand on Landmark Crypto Bill, Chessmaster Garry Kasparov’s Views on Bitcoin
Senators Cynthia Lummis and Kirsten Gillibrand discussed their bipartisan, landmark crypto legislation live at Consensus in Austin, Texas. Plus, chessmaster Garry Kasparov shared his views on the future of crypto.
Tron’s Stablecoin Peg to Dollar Wobbles; Justin Sun Swears to Deploy $2B to Prop Up: Decentralized USD (USDD) fell to as low as 91 cents on crypto exchanges early Monday and was changing hands around 99 cents at press time.
Crypto.com, BlockFi to Cut Over 400 Jobs Amid Market Rout: The companies are the latest crypto firms to announce job reductions, joining Gemini and Rain Financial, among others.
Bank of England Chief Takes Victory Lap as Crypto Crumbles: Andrew Bailey, the head of the U.K. central bank, was testifying in Parliament on Monday afternoon.
MicroStrategy Now Down $1B on Its Bitcoin Bet: Bitcoin has extended its plunge to a fresh 18-month low, below $23,000.
Binance Resumes Bitcoin Withdrawals After Pause: CEO Changpeng Zhao attributed the issue to a “stuck transaction,"" and promised a quick fix.
How Much ETH Does Joe Lubin Hold?: As Ethereum gears up for the switch to proof-of-stake, how the network’s tokens have been distributed comes back into focus.
Today's crypto explainer: What We Know So Far About SHIB: The Metaverse
Other voices: Bitcoin Price Plunges Below $23,000 as Crypto Lender Celsius Halts Withdrawals (The Wall Street Journal)
"".@CelsiusNetwork is pausing all withdrawals, Swap and transfers between accounts. Acting in the interest of our community is our top priority. Our operations continue and we will continue to share information with the community. More here: link.medium.com."" (Crypto lender Celsius on Twitter) ... ""This morning we announced that after taking significant time to plan and consider, we are reducing our headcount by roughly 20%. This is not a decision we take lightly and is one that brings us great sadness."" (BlockFi CEO Zac Prince on Twitter) ... Bitcoin's price is getting routed today, so hashprice is feeling the pressure too For the first time since 2020, Bitcoin's hashprice is below $0.11/TH/day Currently, Bitcoin's USD hashprice is $0.1054/TH/day https://data.hashrateindex.com/chart/bitcoin-hashprice-index"" (Hashrate Index, bitcoin mining data analytics by Luxor Mining, on Twitter) ... ""MicroStrategy has just transferred 2089 #Bitcoin ($48 million) to a new wallet for the first time ever, likely planning to dump their bags. They’re now moments away from facing the largest liquidation in history. Ouch."" (CryptoWhale/Twitter)"
167,185,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/15/crypto-market-chaos-no-lido-is-not-the-next-terra/,"Crypto Market Chaos: No, Lido Is Not ‘the Next Terra’","After over $1 billion in liquidations in just 24 hours, DeFi’s wild west period may be drawing to a close – but not everything’s a sham.",2022-06-15,"So, uh, not sure if you’ve looked out the window at all today … but Ethereum (and DeFi and NFTs) might be on fire.
After last month’s $40 billion crash of the Terra blockchain ecosystem, a long list of decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols are facing renewed scrutiny this week from investors who believe the music has stopped for crypto products with risky – and in some cases, outright nonexistent – fundamentals.
This article originally appeared in Valid Points, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter breaking down Ethereum’s evolution and its impact on crypto markets. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
The “number go up” party is over, retail investors are getting wiped out and billions in losses have been reported across big name balance sheets – fomenting fears that some of the biggest names in DeFi will be forced to liquidate their assets and dump on the market, pushing prices down even further.
Amid the turmoil, Lido Finance’s staked ether (stETH) – an Ethereum-based token representing ETH “staked” on Ethereum’s proof-of-stake Beacon Chain, is being closely watched. stETH, while not exactly “pegged” to the price of actual ETH, has traditionally traded at around the same price because stETH represents a 1:1 claim on ETH staked on the Beacon Chain.
Read more: Lido Briefly Becomes Top DeFi Protocol by TVL With $20B Staked
Today, stETH – which powers an increasingly large segment of DeFi’s borrowing, lending and casino-lite economy – is trading roughly 7% lower than the price of ETH. For those who held or borrowed stETH on the assumption that it and ETH are synonymous, this is a big haircut.
The stETH price drop has fueled some worries on Twitter and elsewhere that Lido is “the next Terra.” What if stETH, which represents around 33% of all staked ether (or around $5 billion), were to drop to zero?
Fortunately, such worries aren’t grounded in actual understanding of how stETH works under the hood.
In this week’s newsletter, we’ll talk a bit about what’s going on in the markets and what it means for stETH and Ethereum as a whole.
Decentralized finance, which was born on Ethereum and then skyrocketed in popularity with the DeFi summer of 2020, set out to provide users with financial tools outside of the reach of regulators and centralized financial institutions. Coded smart contracts – not written contracts or company-controlled servers – would allow users to trade and transact without intermediaries.
Over time, DeFi has grown into a behemoth undergirding the entire crypto economy. But as DeFi success stories like Maker and Uniswap have provided new paradigms for users to borrow, lend and swap digital assets, high-leverage experiments like Olympus and Terra – which promised high yields to users in exchange for their faith in untested investment models – have crashed and burned.
Over the past months, as tokens associated with projects like Terra have fallen to zero, DeFi as a whole has also suffered. That suffering accelerated this week. CoinDesk reported Tuesday that crypto markets saw over $1 billion in liquidations in just 24 hours between Monday and Tuesday.
As Shaurya Malwa, my colleague on CoinDesk’s Markets desk, explained, “Liquidation refers to when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader is unable to meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).”
A primary catalyst for this week’s liquidation chaos appears to have been massive sell-offs from Celsius – an investment product that allows users to easily deposit funds in exchange for market-leading yields. Behind the scenes, Celsius was able to offer high yearly returns up to around 20% by deploying user tokens into myriad DeFi protocols. Celsius would reward depositors with the profits it earned from these protocols, and it would shave off a percentage for itself.
Celsius was a crypto unicorn – raising $400 million in October from investors who believed it had the potential to revolutionize finance (and profit handsomely) by expanding consumer access to DeFi. It now faces criticism that its fund managers behaved like degens (crypto-speak for “degenerates”), swayed by the same eye-popping returns that pooled retailers into uncertain bets like the ill-fated Terra project.
Celsius was never fully transparent with how it deployed user funds behind the scenes, and a wave of sell-offs from the platform this week suggests it, as a result of some risky DeFi investments, is now verging on insolvency.
One of the primary destinations for Celsius’ funds was Anchor – the lending platform that provided users up to 20% per year for deposits of Terra’s dollar-pegged UST stablecoin. The Block reported in May that Celsius deposited around $500 million into Anchor, which it quickly withdrew as Terra started to wobble. While its money was parked in Anchor, Celsius took some of the 20% yield for itself, and then built the rest of the yield into the interest it handed back to depositors.
Though Celsius reportedly withdrew from Anchor before UST imploded, the firm’s one-time involvement with the ill-fated Terra project – combined with a broader cooling (and now, crashing) of DeFi markets – has fueled suspicion that Celsius’ DeFi investments may have declined in value so much that the platform no longer has enough money to pay back its depositors.
The insolvency narrative seemed especially likely on Sunday, when Celsius sent an email to users informing them that it would be pausing all swaps, transfers and withdrawals in an effort to ensure it would be able to honor its commitments moving forward.
Moreover, a wave of recent sell-offs from Celsius suggests some market players that loaned out money to the platforms are now asking for that money back – something one would expect to see during a bear market. It appears likely that, in order to pay off its lenders, Celsius has been forced to sell off some of its largest positions. One of those positions was in stETH.
According to blockchain data, Celsius has nearly $500 million of Lido staked ether (stETH) locked up as collateral in stablecoin loans. It’s possible they have more elsewhere in their treasury.
The attention on stETH this month stems from the fact that it is no longer trading around 1:1 for ETH. Traditionally, ETH and stETH have traded around parity because each stETH represents a direct claim on ETH that Lido, a decentralized protocol, has staked on the Beacon Chain on behalf of its users.
The catch is that while Lido will happily hand out 1 stETH in exchange for 1 ETH, it does not yet allow users to pull their ETH back out of the protocol. This comes down to a limitation with Ethereum itself: ETH staked on the Beacon Chain will be impossible to withdraw until an update following Ethereum’s “Merge” into a proof-of-stake network (today, Ethereum continues to operate using the more energy-intensive proof-of-work consensus mechanism pioneered by Bitcoin).
The main point of a “liquid staking” solution like Lido was to provide users a way to stake, secure the network and earn interest for doing so without losing the ability to use and trade staked assets. (It also allows users to participate in staking without the need to put up 32 ETH — which is what’s required if you are setting up a node by yourself.)
Read more: 'Staked Ether' Becomes Focus of Crypto Stress, From Celsius to Three Arrows
With so much stETH held by Celsius, there’s some fear that the troubled firm may be forced to sell off its stETH to stay afloat (if it hasn’t done so already). This would have the effect of depressing the overall stETH market.
Andrew Thurman of blockchain analytics firm Nansen (and a former CoinDesk colleague) told Decrypt this week that Celsius “sent thousands of stETH to FTX in recent days, presumably to sell, though we can't verify that because it's off-chain … They have likely been especially hard-hit by stETH losing its peg to ETH.”
Concerns that Celsius (and other firms) will be forced to dump more stETH, combined with sales from other stETH holders anxious to cash out during the bear market, may have helped to cause stETH to drop 7% below the price of ETH this week.
Although stETH and ETH should eventually be interchangeable, some holders appear desperate enough to exit their positions that they’ve been willing to trade stETH at a steep discount.
The uncoupling of stETH from ETH has provoked questions as to whether Lido is “the next Terra,” but this is not an apples-to-apples comparison.
First off, while Terra's UST stablecoin was “pegged” to the price of $1, stETH was never pegged to the price of ETH.
So long as stETH is not redeemable for ETH, there’s nothing guaranteeing the two should sell at the same price until they are interchangeable.
“The price of [Lido] staked ETH prices in some risk of not doing the Merge, some risk of [Ethereum not allowing] withdraws, and some opportunity cost of having your ether locked up for along time,” Ben Edgington, product lead at Ethereum development firm ConsenSys, told CoinDesk.
According to Edgington, unless you believe ether is going to zero or you think it will never successfully merge into a proof-of-stake network, you can rest easy knowing you can wait it out and eventually trade stETH back for ETH.
UST, on the other hand, was supposed to be pegged to exactly one dollar based on a complex dance with LUNA, its sister token.
But because of the mechanics underpinning this relationship, a drop in UST’s price would cause LUNA’s supply to inflate and its price to decrease. And the same thing happened the other way around – when LUNA’s price decreased enough, UST ultimately struggled to maintain its $1 peg.
READ MORE: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
The drop in Terra wasn’t merely a case of market sentiment gone bad. It was accelerated by an underlying mechanism that forced UST and LUNA into a “death spiral” to zero under certain conditions.
The relationship between stETH and ETH does not have the sort of feedback loops that doomed Terra.
The people selling stETH at a discount to ETH either need to cash out now (like Celsius needing to pay off loans), or figure ETH’s price will be lower than it is today even after The Merge. Even if it trades at a discount to ETH currently, stETH is unlikely to crash (similar to Terra) unless ether itself crashes.
While all of this market talk may feel like a sideshow for an Ethereum protocol-focused newsletter, Edgington explains that the price of ether, which is down 67% year to date, becomes relevant in a proof-of-stake system.
READ MORE: What is Proof of Stake?
As Edgington puts it, “Proof-of-stake is fundamentally different from proof-of-work in terms of its security model. We can put a very clear cost on attacking the chain.”
He continued, “The dirty secret of proof-of-work is that it can be costless to attack the chain, because if you win a 51% attack, you can actually make a profit, assuming that nothing too bad happens to the coin price … smaller chains have come under attack and their coin price has been flat.”
In a proof-of-stake system, says Edgington, “an attack would cost a minimum of a third of all ether staked – so that would be like 4 million ETH today.” (Side note: This is around how much Lido controls, though it spreads its stake between different parties responsible for validating the network).
In a world where ether has a relatively high price, the cost of attack will also be high – hence why developers like Edgington argue it is more secure. Of course, this also works in the other direction. If the price of ether drops low enough, an attack will be cheaper.
The following is an overview of network activity on the Ethereum Beacon Chain over the past week. For more information about the metrics featured in this section, check out our 101 explainer on Eth 2.0 metrics.
Disclaimer: All profits made from CoinDesk’s Eth 2.0 staking venture will be donated to a charity of the company’s choosing once transfers are enabled on the network.
Aave v3 was deployed on the Ropsten testnet.
WHY IT MATTERS: Following the Ropsten test network successfully merging its proof-of-work execution layer with the Beacon Chain proof-of-stake consensus chain on June 8, developers and users are encouraged to start testing Aave version 3 on the Ropsten testnet. The recent deployment of Aave v3 on Ropsten is one example of many protocols gearing up to be ready for the Merge on the mainnet. The encouragement to test Aave highlights the importance of participants of the Ethereum ecosystem in spotting vulnerabilities and errors before the Merge. Read more here.
Coinbase to lay off roughly 1,100 employees.
WHY IT MATTERS: In its cost-cutting plan, Coinbase (COIN) is reducing its workforce by around 18%. Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong said, “We appear to be entering a recession after a 10+ year economic boom,” adding that the company grew too fast in the crypto bull market. Coinbase joins several crypto companies like BlockFi, Crypto.com and Gemini in announcing job cuts. Read more here.
PayPal is allowing customers to transfer their ether and other crypto off its platform.
WHY IT MATTERS: According to CEO Dan Schulman, the move to transfer cryptocurrency from PayPal’s (PYPL) platform to external wallets is the opening step of moving from a fiat-oriented world to a digital currency one. Crypto has been a non-starter when it comes to a payment method, but the stars are aligning in terms of stablecoins, regulation and digital identity innovation, Schulman added. Moreover, Schulman said the current crypto winter is a time to double down. Read more here.
$15M worth of Optimism tokens were sent to the wrong wallet address and stolen.
WHY IT MATTERS: On June 8, the layer 2 rollup network announced that $15 million of OP governance tokens were sent to the wrong blockchain address. Optimism intended to send the funds to a crypto market maker, Wintermute, but Wintermute provided the wrong wallet address. While Wintermute CEO Evgeny Gaevoy took responsibility for the error, the wallet that holds these governance tokens will still be able to vote on Optimism community governance. The community will decide how Optimism will handle the stolen funds. Read more here.
Goldman Sachs started trading a type of derivative tied to ether.
WHY IT MATTERS: The global investment banking firm executed its first Ethereum non-deliverable forward, a derivative that pays out based on the price of ether and offers institutional investors indirect exposure. Despite the overall market cap for crypto dropping below $1 trillion for the first time in roughly 18 months on Monday, Goldman’s (GS) move reveals lingering institutional appetite for cryptocurrencies. Read more here.
Valid Points incorporates information and data about CoinDesk’s own Ethereum validator in weekly analysis. All profits made from this staking venture will be donated to a charity of our choosing once transfers are enabled on the network. For a full overview of the project, check out our announcement post.
You can verify the activity of the CoinDesk Eth 2.0 validator in real time through our public validator key, which is:
0xad7fef3b2350d220de3ae360c70d7f488926b6117e5f785a8995487c46d323ddad0f574fdcc50eeefec34ed9d2039ecb.
Search for it on any Eth 2.0 block explorer site."
168,333,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/16/first-mover-asia-celsius-risks-triggered-crypto-crash-says-huobi-group-cfo-bitcoin-wobbles-but-doesnt-break-post-rate-hike/,"First Mover Asia: Celsius Risks Triggered Crypto Crash, Says Huobi Group CFO; Bitcoin Wobbles but Doesn't Break Post-Rate Hike","Lily Zhang told CoinDesk the lending platform's problems were ill-timed following the collapse of the terraUSD stablecoin, and crypto prices could decline further; major altcoins regain ground.",2022-06-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin fell as the U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell announced the highest interest rate hike since 1994. Bitcoin later recovered.
Insights: Huobi Group's chief financial officer attributed the recent crypto crash to lending platform Celsius' announcement that it would pause withdrawals.
Technician's take: In place of Technician's Take, First Mover Asia is republishing a report on the current crypto winter by CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,710 +3.6%
Ether (ETH): $1,246 +4%
Bitcoin Wobbles but Regains Its Balance
The Fed decreed interest rates will rise again.
Bitcoin cowered at first, then shrugged and climbed.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization recently moved past $22,700, a 3.6% jump from where it stood 24 hours earlier. Upon hearing the widely expected news Wednesday morning that the U.S. central bank would hike rates by the highest increment in more than a quarter-century – three-quarters of a percentage point – bitcoin fell toward $20,000. The price recovered shortly after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell made his announcement.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, also dropped first before rising about 4% from Tuesday to cross $1,200. Other major altcoins were in the green with SOL up 20% at one point, and UNI and DOT each rising over 15%. The increases recovered some of the massive amounts of ground that major cryptos lost over the past six days following first a surprising poor Consumer Price Index showing untamed inflation and then crypto lending platform Celsius' decision to halt withdrawals.
The fear, uncertainty, and doubt (FUD as it's known in the industry) has taken hold over crypto markets, moving from one party (and what it signifies within the ecosystem) to the next,"" Elementus CEO Max Galka wrote to CoinDesk. ""Today it is Celsius, tomorrow it will likely be another entity. When this cycle starts, exotic assets like cryptocurrencies are the first to be sold among institutional investors, and we will all know where the road ends.""
Crypto prices dovetailed with stocks' gains on Wednesday with the tech heavy Nasdaq rising 2.5% to reverse some of its steep losses from earlier in the week. The S&P 500, which hit bear market territory on Tuesday, meaning that it fell at least 20% from its previous high, gained 1.4% to break a five-day losing streak as investors reacted positively to the Fed's strong inflationary medicine and indications that it would continue its monetary hawkishness. Gold, a traditional safe haven that had dropped in previous days, increased 1.2%.
Powell said that last week's inflation surprise warranted “strong action at this meeting” rather than waiting another six weeks for the next gathering. “We decided we needed to go ahead, and so we did,” Powell said. “We came to the view that we’d like to do a little more front-end loading on that.""
He noted that ""either a 50-basis-point or a 75-basis-point increase seems most likely at our next meeting.”
Inflation played prominently on the minds of European financial leaders as well earlier Wednesday as the European Central Bank called an unscheduled meeting to consider wider market issues, including rising borrowing costs among indebted countries on the continent.
Meanwhile, the crypto industry continued to reckon with fallout from Celsius and the collapse last month of the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) and LUNA token that supported it. Bitcoin was trading near $40,000 prior to UST losing its dollar peg in early May, and the dual debacles have undermined crypto investor confidence. Elementus' Galka noted similarities in the current environment to the 2008 financial crisis when equity markets plummeted.
""The current market conditions surrounding Terra and Celsius, and what both parties represent purely as psychological catalysts, do appear to have the makings of another 2008 crash,"" Galka wrote. ""There are important differentiators for sure: Terra USD was a flawed protocol vulnerable to attack, while the houses sold in 2008 dropped in fundamental value. In both cases, however, widespread fear was the primary motivator, introduced by the possibility of risk becoming a reality.""
S&P 500: 3,789 +1.4%
DJIA: 30,668 +1%
Nasdaq: 11,099 +2.5%
Gold: $1,834 +1.2%
Celsius Triggered the Latest Crypto Crash
Bitcoin extended its losing streak to a record nine days and neared the $20,000 level after Asian markets closed. The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization is down 30% decline over the past week.
Risk-averse traders continue to shy away from bitcoin amid macroeconomic concerns such as rising inflation and contagion risks from within the crypto market.
Some, like Lily Zhang, the chief financial officer of Huobi Group, attributed bitcoin’s fall this week to troubles at prominent crypto lender Celsius, plus weak global markets. Huobi is one of the most popular exchanges in the Asian market and trades billions of dollars daily.
“We believe that the immediate trigger for the crypto crash appears to be a massive sell-off by investors amid the pausing of withdrawal services by crypto lending firm Celsius,” Zhang told CoinDesk in an email, adding the development came as crypto traders were just recovering from the implosion of Terra last month.
Celsius offered its users yields of up to 17% on deposits – an attractive amount for users looking to enter the crypto market and earn on idle capital. The firm used several strategies to garner returns, such as investing in liquidity pools on decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms.
Such strategies worked … until they didn’t. Poor market dynamics caused prices of staked ether (stETH), a popular ether derivative product used by the likes of Celsius, to stray away from prices of spot ether (ETH) and sent investing strategies akilter.
The contagion risk affected many prominent crypto players, with Celsius pausing all user withdrawals this week and notable crypto fund Three Arrows Capital seeing at least $400 million in losses due to liquidations.
Contagion risks on top of macroeconomic concerns could have led to outflows. As per a note this week from crypto firm CoinShares, investors have withdrawn over $102 million from cryptocurrencies last week amid expectations of a tightening of monetary policy by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
Meanwhile, Huobi’s Zhang says the market could see further declines as more liquidations occur and players are forced to sell.
“In the short term, the market will remain in a precarious position, and we should prepare for more liquidations which will increase the downward trend we are already seeing on stETH,” Zhang said.
Zhang, however, added that prices could see a recovery after short-term volatility subsides: “On an optimistic note, as the selling pressure on stETH continues to increase, more demand will seep into the second-hand markets and create cheaper stETH prices that may be attractive to new investors, which will in-turn increase demand and drive prices back up to normal.”
Sentiment among other crypto traders remains mixed. BitMEX founder Arthur Hayes fears the market has not yet hit rock bottom, and we could see a massive sell-off in cryptocurrencies if bitcoin falls below $20,000. Elsewhere, Galaxy Digital head Mike Novogratz said in a tweet that bitcoin is close to the “bottom” and will hold above $20,000.
As for the Celsius troubles, some say users are better off custodying their own assets than depending on a third party. One executive who has witnessed several crypto winters, said that markets can decline quickly and scarily, but they’re not indefinite.
“Self-custody is what crypto was built for, and what we are seeing right now is not unusual,” explained Brian Norton, chief operating officer of MyEtherWallet, in an email to CoinDesk. “These sorts of occurrences illustrate the need and benefits of self-custody, and provide time and opportunity for people to learn how it is done.
“I think every time you see this, it just reinforces the point that if you are relying exclusively on centralized platforms, even when the yields are great, you’re still giving up a good deal of control over your digital assets,” Norton added.
Crypto Winter Is Here. The Weak Will Die, and the Strong Will Eat Their Bones
Let visions of Consensus carry you through the bear market.
It has been a week of whiplash for us here at CoinDesk. On the one hand, we just scored an immense triumph as an organization with Consensus 2022, which wrapped up on Sunday. The conference was a sprawling, frenetic four days that proved how intense and broad the interest in crypto is. It also, if I can pat my fellow CoinDeskers on the back, proved once and for all that we are the media organization at the center of it all.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
On the other hand, of course, in the mere two days since Consensus ended, we’ve seen an incredible rout in crypto markets, with bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) both dropping roughly 20% in two days.
There are now signs of a liquidity crunch, and maybe even insolvency, at the centralized lending platform Celsius Network ­– arguably the “other shoe” dropping after the LUNA/UST unwind. Trouble at Celsius, in turn, seems to have traders worried about stETH, an important bond-like token related to the Ethereum Merge. There are similar, seeming liquidity issues at Three Arrows Capital and, to top it all off, crypto exchange Coinbase just laid off 1,100 people.
There is so much to say about this moment, and we here at CoinDesk will be saying all of it in the coming weeks and months as we help you navigate the crypto crisis. But before the dominos started toppling at scale, I was planning for this column to be about the amazingness of Consensus. And I still think that’s important, because the vision and passion that was on display at Consensus in Austin, Texas, last weekend is exactly how we find our way out of this mess.
A big tent
Above all, Consensus was a big tent. Huge, in fact, literally and figuratively. We drew 17,000 attendees to the conference itself, and another 3,000 attended satellite events. It was the South by Southwest of crypto, complete with concerts from Disclosure and Big Boi. And it will be next year, in Austin, too.
More to the point, though, the breadth of programming and perspectives was mind-boggling. For instance, I was on my way to moderate a panel and had a few moments to spare, and so I stuck my head in a random auditorium – and there was Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen, who has little crypto involvement aside from a shared concern about data harvesting.
I got to see sci-fi author Neal Stephenson and technologist Jaron Lanier in conversation with CoinDesk contributor Leah Callon-Butler. I myself got to interview one of the Baylor University bitcoin researchers, and also had a delightfully unhinged conversation with Chris Gabriel, aka MemeAnalysis, about memetics, Freud, black magic and the CIA.
See also: Ex-CIA Director Says Criminals Will Move Away From Bitcoin
Crypto, it seems clear, is becoming a Schelling point for various stripes of dissatisfaction with the status quo. A Schelling point is, very loosely, a symbol, site, technology or other focal point that draws people together to collaborate without explicit communication or coordination. Crypto has seized society’s imagination and become a site for transformative change – even if we’re not clear where it’s headed.
Crashdown?
And here we get to the market crash. I feel immense empathy for those who are losing their jobs right now and for those who will in the coming days and weeks. I’ve been there – I lost my job as a result of the 2018 crypto crash.
But there are also immense positives to a crypto downturn. The products failing – particularly luna and Celsius – were substantially illusory all along, driven by inflated, unsustainable returns. It’s now becoming clear that the “profits” depositors in these systems received were essentially a game of musical chairs using venture capital money.
Coinbase, meanwhile, has admitted that it made a major strategic mistake by hiring too fast despite, as I pointed out when it went public in 2021, the brutally cyclical nature of the exchange business. And Three Arrows, a highly influential venture firm, appears to have been heavily invested in some of the most speculative and risky projects on the market.
I know it’s a terrible cliché, but it’s nonetheless true: All of that is, in fact, the good news.
Back at it
While we’ll certainly see more unwinds, withdrawal freezes and mysterious silences over the next few weeks or even months, the market crash will be hardest on companies and investors who have made poor decisions. As crypto expanded and hype built over the past two years, fundamentally worthless projects proliferated, minting their own ephemeral tokens and convincing uninformed retail traders and high-profile veteran hedge fund managers alike that they had value.
This sort of garbage has crept into crypto during every expansion cycle. The current downturn is the holy cleansing flame that will eliminate it, in the same way that an old-growth forest needs a good fire every once in a while to renew itself. Getting rid of fake trash built on hype and a cult of personality means that, while there may be less money sloshing around for the next year or so, a much higher proportion of that will go to credible projects.
Capital is available
Those who are looking to build something based on a solid idea will thrive in this environment – especially because, unlike in 2018, it seems likely there will still be substantial venture capital available. As an example, consider that OpenSea, which generated $20 billion in NFT sales in 2021, was founded in 2017, with a lot of building through 2018 and 2019. That was not just during a fallow period for crypto, it was before most people had heard the term non-fungible token.
See also: 6 Reasons for Optimism This Crypto Winter | Opinion
There will be other OpenSeas, other Ethereum Name Services (ENS), other genuinely useful and profitable services or technologies developed during the coming bear market (OK, I’m ready to call it a crypto winter now). The best way to survive, or thrive, will be to do that building and position yourself to reap the benefits during the next big surge.
And remember that these downturns are always shorter than they seem. Personally, after losing my crypto job in 2018 it was less than two years before I was back in the industry – and having even more fun than before.
Bank of England interest rate decision
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): Melbourne Institute's Australia consumer inflation expectations (June)
9 a.m. HKT/SGT(1 a.m. UTC): China house price index (May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Fed Decision Day: Bitcoin Drops Toward $20K, Former CFTC Chair on Crypto Lending Crisis, DeFi Regulation
Former Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Timothy Massad joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the crypto lending crisis and outlook for decentralized finance regulation. Bitcoin dropped near $20,000 level amid contagion risks in the crypto market. Doug Schwenk of Digital Asset Research provided his markets analysis. Plus, three-time Grammy-nominated, multi-platinum recording artist and entrepreneur French Montana shared his “French Family NFT” that unlocks NFT music rights to his upcoming new album.
Fed Announces Biggest Interest Rate Hike in 28 Years; Bitcoin Gains: ""The labor market is extremely tight, and inflation is much too high,"" said Chair Jerome Powell.
Celsius Troubles, UST Collapse May Help Crypto Long Term, FSInsight Says: The firm sees good buying opportunity now for bitcoin.
Three Arrows Faces Possible Insolvency After Unforeseen Liquidations: Report: The investment firm has been one of the most vocal crypto market participants in the past few years.
Tether Sees New Wave of Redemptions as Fear of Market Contagion Spreads: Investors pulled out some $1.6 billion this week from USDT, the largest stablecoin by market capitalization, amid growing nervousness as cryptocurrency prices keep sliding.
A Manhattan Landlord Listed His Office Building in ETH as an NFT. Then Its Price Dropped $12M: The owner, Chris Okada, says the building will be relisted in the coming days to adjust for ether’s 40% price drop.
The Meme Economy: Those who grasp the memetic nature of not only crypto, but all value, can gain immense power from understanding natural flows of meaning. This piece is a preview of a talk to be given on the Big Ideas stage at Consensus 2022.
Today's crypto explainer: 15 Ways to Stay Sane While Trading Crypto
Other voices: Inside a Corporate Culture War Stoked by a Crypto C.E.O. (The New York Times)
""We’re not trying to induce a recession now. Let’s be clear about that.” (Fed Chairman Jerome Powell) ... ""Nexo's business model is designed with sustainability in mind, so we continue to grow even, and especially, now. We are not spoiled by VCs, Hollywood actors & sports teams – we did it organically on our own."" (Nexo/Twitter) ... ""@CelsiusNetwork team is working non-stop. We’re focused on your concerns and thankful to have heard from so many. To see you come together is a clear sign our community is the strongest in the world. This is a difficult moment; your patience and support mean the world to us."" (Crypto lending platform Celsius/Twitter) ... ""Two of the largest names in the play-to-earn scholarship space have decided to part ways after seven months. Members of Merit Circle voted to terminate their relationship with Yield Guild Games (YGG), buying out the guild's 175,000 USDC ($175,000) investment in the play-to-earn gaming decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) for 1.75 million USDC."" (Gaming DAO Merit Circle, YGG ‘Terminate Relationship’/CoinDesk) ... ""Uhh… a massive DAO just voted to “refund” one of their investors who was owed a 30x return ($5M+)This is an insane story that impacts all builders in web3 and as a founder I need to speak out Merit Circle DAO vs YGG 🧵"" (101.XYZ CEO Tim Connors/Twitter)"
169,105,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/17/fud-or-facts-terra-celsius-show-value-of-asking-questions/,"FUD or Facts? Terra, Celsius Show Value of Asking Questions",Kicking the tires on crypto projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow.,2022-06-17,"Three weeks ago – before Consensus 2022, before the Federal Reserve put the fear of God into crypto traders, before the Celsius meltdown sent bitcoin on a downward spiral toward $20,000 – I wrote a column about the challenges quantum computing poses to blockchains.
Like clockwork came the cries of “FUD” from the Crypto Twitterati.
You’re reading Money Reimagined, a weekly look at the technological, economic and social events and trends that are redefining our relationship with money and transforming the global financial system. Subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
FUD, for those who don’t know, stands for “fear, uncertainty and doubt.” The crypto community has long used the pejorative to describe what they see as falsehoods or exaggerations spread by opponents of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology to scare off investors, regulators and the general public.
And that’s fine, I suppose, if you’re talking about deliberate attempts to spread ill will. But the knee-jerk way in which supporters of crypto resort to the “FUD” cry and other dismissive responses to any critique or expressions of concern about the space also reveal a worrisome immaturity in this space.
Too often, journalists, especially my team at CoinDesk, are targets of these responses when those reporters are simply asking the tough questions that any good media organization must ask to get to the facts.
Now, with the failings of two key systemically risky enterprises - Celsius and the Terra-Luna project – roiling the crypto markets, it’s my hope that people in this industry can finally appreciate the value of asking questions and finding failings. Kicking the tires on projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow.
That’s true, whether it’s to explore what, if anything, must be done to upgrade blockchains to post-quantum proofs or whether it’s to expose the serious, vital questions that smart analysts are asking about the viability of Terraform Labs’ UST stablecoin or Celsius’ high-yield returns.
Without wanting to pile on or indulge in “told you sos,” it’s worth pointing out how, over the past three years, CoinDesk reporters have covered Terraform Labs and Celsius and the responses they’ve received. The hard-hitting coverage has been relentless, as have the efforts to dismiss our line of questioning as FUD. Here are but a couple of examples:
In July 2020, former CoinDesk reporter Nate DiCamillo published a piece entitled “What Crypto Lender Celsius Isn’t Telling Its Depositors” about how the company may have been taking on “more risk than its depositors realize.” The reporter described the company’s operation in straightforward terms that made the risks clear: “Like a bank, Celsius Network borrows from one set of clients, lends to other customers and pockets the difference in interest. Unlike a bank, it only borrows and mainly lends cryptocurrency, and it does not have government deposit insurance.” Retweets of the story were met with cries of “fake news.” Celsius CEO and founder Alex Mashinsky was quoted in the piece telling a YouTube audience of “Celsians” - as the company’s users are known – “Don’t listen to the FUD-ers, look at the facts.” Mashinsky went to assure those same listeners “that the company is prudently deploying their crypto deposits,” DiCamillo wrote. FUD or prescient warning? You decide.
And then there’s Terraform Labs high-profile founder Do Kwon. In December, CoinDesk selected Kwon as one of its “Most Influential” for 2021. But acknowledging a person’s influence in an industry will never preclude our journalists from asking tough questions. At that time, with Terraform Labs under investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the company having taken the dramatic step of filing a lawsuit against the SEC to challenge its subpoenas, our CoinDesk TV “First Mover” anchor Christine Lee asked Do Kwon for his thoughts on the U.S. regulatory situation. His response was surprising, given the situation: “In the U.S.? I have very little interest.” When Christine pressed him, Kwon claimed that because he was of Asian descent he had an interest in global affairs and wasn’t “obsessed with American policies and American regulations.” What ensued after that was a Twitter attack against Christine, in which Kwon stirred up a horde of “LUNAtics”against her. A few brave souls sprung to her defense, including one who pointed out that Kwon’s “I’m Asian” defense – as if he was indifferent to regulatory issues – was shallow, because he had not set up his company in his native South Korea but in the more lax regulatory jurisdiction of Singapore. But, of course, these defenders were immediately accused of FUD.
The point here is that as journalists struggle to get to the truth, the people they are seeking answers from too often abuse the emotional connection their community of token holders have with their projects. They stir up the tribe to obfuscate and intimidate. It is ugly behavior and it looks bad for the industry.
More importantly, this lack of appreciation for fact-finding runs counter to the antifragile ethos of open-source systems. Crypto is supposed to be constantly improving and advancing, precisely because the bugs and flaws in its code and design are exposed and are subject to discussion and debate. Out of that process comes progress.
Read more: Just Because It's Bad for Your Coin Doesn't Mean It's FUD (2018)
Now that the flaws of the Terra-Luna and Celsius projects have been exposed in the most painful way, let’s hope the community uses this opportunity for some of its own introspection.
Let’s assign “FUD” to the dustbin of history."
170,34,https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2022/06/17/wallet-that-helped-trigger-ust-implosion-linked-by-analysis-firm-to-terra-developer/,Wallet That Helped Trigger UST Implosion Linked by Analysis Firm to Terra Developer,The popular decentralized stablecoin lost its dollar peg and fell to pennies in May. A South Korean blockchain analysis firm suggests the death spiral was sparked by transactions from a wallet linked to the lead Terra developer – though any motivation or rationale remains a mystery.,2022-06-17,"UPDATE (June 30, 13:11 UTC): This story has been updated to reflect additional information received by CoinDesk indicating that the Uppsala report incorrectly identified the owner of the ""terra13s"" wallet. CoinDesk conducted an experiment to demonstrate that the ""terra13s"" wallet is a hot wallet of the OKX crypto exchange. A description of this experiment has been added to the story, along with a response from an Uppsala executive acknowledging that the results are clear.
A blockchain transaction that contributed to the collapse of Terra's UST stablecoin has been linked by a South Korean analysis firm to the ecosystem's chief developer, Terraform Labs.
CoinDesk Korea reported the findings by the blockchain analysis firm Uppsala Security earlier this week.
Uppsala, in its report, did not venture to provide a possible motive or rationale for the transaction, and officials with Terraform Labs did not reply to requests for comment.
But the findings have been shared with legal authorities in South Korea, where Terra enjoyed a huge following partly due to its Korean founder Do Kwon. The Seoul Southern District Prosecutors' Office is “tracking the flow of problematic wallets and coins” and is aware of the wallets flagged in the report, according to CoinDesk Korea.
""We compiled our report based on publicly available on-chain and online data, with the goal of providing evidence and leads to get closer to the truth that the impacted members of the community deserve to know,” Uppsala CEO Patrick Kim told CoinDesk in a WhatsApp message.
Uppsala Security conducted an analysis of Terra wallets and flagged the Ethereum wallet “0x8d47f08ebc5554504742f547eb721a43d4947d0a” (referred to as ""Wallet A"") as one of the main addresses whose actions helped pushed prices of UST off of its intended $1 peg.
Blockchain data shows Wallet A swapped over 85 million UST for another dollar-linked stablecoin, USDC, on May 7 – just minutes after Terraform removed over 150 million UST from a liquidity pool on the lending platform Curve in a planned move.
Prices of UST fell under $1 almost immediately following these trades, which Uppsala said was a result of the lower liquidity on the Curve pool. Meanwhile, Wallet A’s newly acquired USDC was sent to Coinbase (COIN), one of the biggest crypto exchanges by trading volume.
""There's no telling what happened to the funds transferred to these Binance and Coinbase wallets, whether they're still there or have since been transferred somewhere else,"" Uppsala wrote in the report.
On further investigation by Uppsala, Wallet A’s transaction history showed it had received the 85 million UST from “terra1yl8l5dzz4jhnzzh6jxq6pdezd2z4qgmgrdt82k,” a wallet address on the Terra blockchain. The UST on the Terra blockchain was converted into UST on the Ethereum blockchain via Wormhole, a swap service for exchanging tokens from one chain to another.
The transactional history of that wallet showed it regularly sent huge amounts of UST to crypto exchange Binance. Uppsala showed that the wallet transacted with several other Terra wallets such as “terra1gr0xesnseevzt3h4nxr64sh5gk4dwrwgszx3nw” (referred to as terra1gr). This aroused suspicions at Uppsala – since terra1gr was one of the official wallets of the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), which was set up by Kwon and other Terraform Labs officials to create a reserve for the ""algorithmic"" protocol behind UST.
According to Uppsala, apart from terra1gr, another Terra wallet ""terra13s4gwzxxx6dyjcf5m7"" (referred to as terra13s) exchanged funds recently with wallets on the Binance exchange that can be linked to Wallet A. Uppsala wrote that the terra13s wallet is now one of the official wallets of the LUNC DAO, a validator of Terra’s new Terra 2.0 blockchain.
However, a LUNC transaction made by CoinDesk was able to independently verify that the terra13s address is a hot wallet that belongs to the crypto exchange OKX. This was done by acquiring 25,000 LUNC on OKX and transferring the holdings out of OKX to another wallet address. The ""sender address"" was on a blockchain scanning tool Terra Finder revealed to be terra13s – proving the wallet is an OKX wallet.
CoinDesk pointed the finding out to Uppsala's Kim, who responded by stating, ""Yes it's clear.""
Investigation of all these wallets, their connections and their repeated transactions with each other led Uppsala to conclude that the wallets either had the same owner or were managed by a single entity.
Uppsala says the findings mean the actions of Terraform Labs may have ultimately resulted in UST’s implosion. “It means that Terraform Labs or LFG made a financial transaction that caused Terra to collapse on its own,” the team said in its report.
""Not only Wallet A but also the wallet connected to it were managed by Terraform Labs and related companies,” Uppsala’s Kim told CoinDesk in a WhatsApp message."
171,262,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/17/lido-finance-warns-leverage-is-a-hell-of-a-drug/,Lido Finance Warns Leverage Is a ‘Hell of a Drug’,"After integrating with DeFi major Aave, Lido saw leverage kick up a gear and nudged some larger players to unwind. But plenty of people didn’t.",2022-06-17,"Ethereum staking firm Lido Finance, whose derivative products are a component in the crisis currently engulfing firms like Celsius and Three Arrows Capital, saw the writing on the wall and tried to “nudge” some big players to unwind their leveraged positions. But many didn’t.
The leverage concerns became most apparent after Lido became integrated with decentralized finance (DeFi) giant Aave in March of this year, explained Jacob Blish, head of business development and partnerships at Lido Finance. The situation raised fundamental questions about the extent to which a decentralized platform like Lido should intervene in its users’ appetite for risk, he said.
“When we saw the leverage issue was starting to really come to a head, we tried to take a few initiatives and ended up spending a few million dollars to allow some larger players to unwind,” said Blish. “But a lot of people still didn’t unwind.”
Blish pointed out it’s not Lido’s job to police how much return users can have. “We’re not your parents,” he said. “I guess we didn’t think how much leverage would be taken out. We wanted Aave, and as soon as we got Aave leverage just kind of kicked off. And leverage is a hell of a drug, as they say.”
After the LUNA collapse, Celsius froze all withdrawals, causing a domino effect in the market that saw a broad crypto selloff and numerous job cuts by some larger companies, including Coinbase (COIN). Meanwhile, insolvency rumors are also beginning to emerge around crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital.
Read more: How Crypto Lender Celsius Overheated
Lido Finance, a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), allows supporters of Ethereum who pledged ether (ETH) ahead of the blockchain’s merge to proof-of-stake (PoS) to use the assets they locked up. It is the largest of the Ethereum staking services.
Lido provides those users with a derivative token called stETH which can be swapped back for ETH on a 1:1 basis, but only once the transition to PoS is complete. In the meantime, stETH combines the value of the initial staking deposit with staking rewards which accrue daily in a token that can earn further yield on decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms like Aave, Curve and SushiSwap.
Unfortunately, stETH has become a focus of heavy leverage, and as crypto markets have quickly flipped from a risk-on to risk-off, firms chasing returns without having properly hedged – as is the case with Celsius – have ended up in a bind.
Adding layers of complexity and risk, users of Lido’s liquid staking products started creating so-called “revolving loans,” where stETH attained by staking ETH at Lido would be deposited in Aave and used as collateral to borrow additional ETH. This process was then continually repeated.
“Once we were listed on Aave, that really opened up the opportunity for what we call folded leverage or cycle leverage where you do that a few times to really ramp up your risk and reward,” Blish said.
Despite the obvious risk attached to something like this, it becomes a complex issue that can’t be simply resolved.
“If we impose limits, what if Aave doesn’t,” asked Blish. “Or if we and Aave do, but some third party doesn’t, what happens then … And all we can do is help nudge to provide some space, and as much education on the risks that come with these strategies as we can. But at the end of the day, DeFi is about choosing your own adventure,” he added.
A worry for many crypto natives is that Celsius and the situation with Lido’s liquid staking product will be viewed by the outside world, and particularly by regulators, as somehow analogous to the recent blowup of the Terra Luna stablecoin and DeFi platform.
Blish pointed out the obvious differentiator here is that UST and LUNA was not collateralized, whereas every stETH token in existence is backed fully by 1 ETH. Indeed, the whole idea of stETH “depegging” is a common misnomer, he added.
“People have been stuck on the idea of a peg,” Blish said. “That’s probably PTSD from what happened with terra- luna, where it was supposed to be pegged under all circumstances,” he noted. “For us, we call it an exchange rate. Really what it comes down to is you’re discounting future cash flows compared to your need for liquidity today.”
Since true unbonding is not available until the Ethereum merge has happened – thus allowing withdrawals from the Beacon Chain – this has created a liquidity squeeze on the popular DeFi platform Curve.
Read more: Crypto Market Chaos: No, Lido Is Not ‘the Next Terra’
“Players such as Celsius or Three Arrows Capital that were basically over leveraged or over exposed have seen their clients want to withdraw their money, and there’s an obligation to provide that liquidity,” he said. “When that happens in mass across the entire market, and you’re adding retail and other players in the space – all trying to go against this one-way exit – that’s where this exchange rate conversation really started becoming a problem.”
Others in the staking space are taking stock of the unraveling situation at Celsius. For instance, Konstantin Richter, CEO of rival staking services firm Blockdaemon, has concluded that institutional-grade liquid staking should only be done in a tightly controlled environment, with full know-your-customer (KYC) and limits on the amount firms can borrow against the pool.
“We believe that you need pools that are fully insured and guaranteed,” Richter said in an interview. “Lido is a much larger player and really a consumer product and has a lot of different complexity to adhere to. And I think they're doing a good job. People talk about de-pegging, but that’s really the wrong word. Nothing’s pegging; everything’s backed one to one.”
On the subject of Celsius’s woes, Richter said the firm has been a cornerstone of the crypto landscape for a long time and that people should resist from assuming malicious intent.
“It’s very hard to prepare any business for a market environment like the one we’re currently experiencing. You can’t expect firms to have a crystal ball,” he said. “What I would say is it’s actually remarkable that the DeFi platforms are all holding up and resolving themselves without having to get bailed out,” he added."
172,163,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/18/terraform-labs-founder-backers-sued-on-claims-that-investors-were-misled/,"Terraform Labs, Founder, VC Firms Sued on Claims That Investors Were Misled","The plaintiff alleges the so-called ""Terra Tokens"" resembled securities, regardless of investor perception.",2022-06-18,"An Illinois resident sued Terraform Labs, its founder Do Kwon and several VC firms that make up the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG) on claims the defendants violated federal securities laws and misled investors.
The plaintiff, Nick Patterson, filed a lawsuit seeking class action status on Friday in the Northern District of California in the hopes of recouping losses and any injunctive or punitive fees from a jury trial.
Patterson alleged both California state and federal law violations against the defendants.
The plaintiff said the ""Terra Tokens,"" (a catchall term for both UST, LUNA and other tokens in the ecosystem) resembled securities, even if investors may not have been able to recognize them as such, pointing to how Terraform Labs and the VCs behind the LFG marketed the project.
LUNA and UST both collapsed in dramatic fashion last month after the stablecoin lost its peg. An attempt to relaunch LUNA has so far failed to bring investors back to the project.
The filing, which includes screenshots from Twitter, heavily quotes Kwon and his dismissive reactions to other parties who claimed UST faced a depegging risk.
In addition to Terraform Labs and Do Kwon, the suit lists as defendants Definance Capital/ Definance Technologies Oy, GSR/GSR Markets Limited, Jump Crypto, Jump Trading LLC, Nicholas Platias, Republic Capital, Republic Maximal LLC, Three Arrows Capital, Pte. Ltd. and Tribe Capital.
Three Arrows Capital is facing financial woes of its own."
173,171,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/06/19/luna-only-makes-bermuda-love-stablecoins-more/,Luna Only Makes Bermuda Love Stablecoins More,"Digital assets are the future, Bermuda Premier David Burt said during the Consensus 2022 conference. He’s not worried about his country being shut out by jurisdictions like the EU.",2022-06-19,"AUSTIN, Texas — The collapse of Terra’s terraUSD (UST) made some investors think twice about buying stablecoins. The algorthmic stablecoin, pegged to the U.S. dollar, turned out to be less than stable, and investors in stablecoins as a whole were spooked about being left with nothing.
It’s the exact opposite way of thinking for Bermuda’s premier, David Burt. He said in an interview the Terra debacle highlights the importance of good regulation, vindicating his goal of making his country the world’s home for safe, innovative assets.
The recent dramatic loss of terraUSD’s dollar peg “is a validation of the approach that we've taken,” Burt told CoinDesk during the recent Consensus 2022 conference here.
“What Bermuda wants to be is the hub of the global stablecoin market, where it is issued under a regulated environment so investors and citizens can have confidence,” he said. “There are stablecoins, but then there are regulated stablecoins.”
He first told CoinDesk about his aims for crypto regulation during a ""Money Reimagined"" podcast in October 2020. Last week, it was announced that Bermuda had issued its first digital asset banking license to locally-based institution Jewel Bank, representing the first new bank license of any kind issued by Bermuda in 21 years.
""Money Reimagined"": Bermuda Will Skip the Age of CBDCs, With Premier David Burt
It’s been a long wait, but Burt hopes people will take that as a sign of the nation's thoroughness and credibility and be confident the Bermuda Monetary Authority has done its homework to protect hard-earned savings.
“Our regulator has responsibility to ensure that in breaking this new ground [involving stablecoins] all the risk has been assessed,” he said. “That might take longer, but you will know that we go through an incredibly thorough process.”
In addition to being a bank, Jewel plans to issue a U.S. dollar-linked stablecoin in the fall of this year for use in wholesale financial markets, potentially followed one pegged to the Bermudian dollar and then other currencies.
“Digital assets broadly are going to change the way in which the world operates,” Burt said. “We believe that is certainly going to be the future, and we want Bermuda to be the home of innovation.”
Jewel’s CEO agrees it’s not been an easy process – although Nick Lepetsos stressed that, as a bank-issued, fully reserved asset, its proposed stablecoin has a much more robust model than Terra’s algorithmic version.
Lepetsos told CoinDesk the procedure to secure Jewel's license included a grueling set of questions about the company’s expertise, capital and reason for existing – far from the cartoon view of “going to the DMV, the Department of Motor Vehicles, where you just sign up and get in line and you wait a while, and you get your license,” he said.
Read more: Jewel Bank Approved as Bermuda's First Digital Asset Bank as Premier Burt Readies to Take Nation Into Stablecoins
While long a major financial center, Bermuda’s a tiny territory – and business models like Jewel’s will depend on being able to reach bigger markets in places like the U.S.
But Burt doesn’t seem worried about the prospect of being shut out.
European Union lawmakers considering the bloc’s landmark Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA) have proposed that crypto providers should be barred from serving European markets if they operate from known tax havens. That could potentially include places like Bermuda, which was added to an EU “graylist” of noncooperative tax jurisdictions in February.
The European Commission has urged a rethink of plans it says could breach international trade law. But even if an EU blacklist does emerge for territories with sloppy crypto rules, Burt doesn’t seem worried.
“I would say that if they were to do that type of ranking, Bermuda would probably be at the top of the list,” he said. However, when it comes to regulation, “We know how to do this stuff, and so we have no fear about what may come.”
Read more: EU Ban on Tax-Haven Crypto Firms Could Breach Trade Law, Commission Warns"
174,335,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/19/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-as-digital-gold-and-inflation-hedge-really-btc-is-under-water-while-the-metal-you-can-hold-is-breathing-air-cryptos-rebound-sunday/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin as Digital Gold and Inflation Hedge. Really? BTC Is Under Water, While the Metal You Can Hold Is Breathing Air; Cryptos Rebound Sunday","A Sunday rally had bitcoin perched back over $20K and ether above $1.1K, but the recent Terra and Celsius debacles have increased investor anxiety about the digital assets' ability to maintain those levels.",2022-06-19,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin Reclaims $20,000; other cryptos rally.
Insights: Old-fashioned gold is outperforming its digital version.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,510 +8%
Ether (ETH): $1,125 +13.2%
S&P 500: 3,674 +0.2%
DJIA: 29,888 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 10,798 +1.4%
Gold: $1,840 -0.5%
Bitcoin Reclaims $20K; Other Cryptos Rebound
A Sunday rally sent bitcoin back above the $20,000 threshold it has occupied for much of the past month, but analysts remained unconvinced that the surge will have staying power.
Bitcoin was recently trading at about $20,500, up more than 8% over the previous 24 hours. At one point the previous day, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had fallen below $17,800, its lowest level since mid-December 2017 when Bitcoin was near the peak of a bull run. That dip also fell below the high of that up cycle, disproving a theory that bitcoin would not breach a previous cycle's high watermark.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, followed a similar price pattern, tumbling to an almost five-year low below $1,000 before rising late in the weekend. It was recently changing hands at about $1,120, up more than 13% from the previous day. Other major altcoins were well into the green with LTC and AXS up more than 17% at one point.
""We had marked $19K-$20K and $16K-$17K as areas of interest, and bitcoin bounced from the latter,"" Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull, wrote to CoinDesk. ""However, unless it successfully maintains $20K with high volumes and bidding, we would not expect the rally to continue.""
The tech-heavy Nasdaq closed an otherwise dreadful week for stocks with a modest 1.4% gain on Friday, while the S&P 500 ticked up a fraction of a percentage point. The S&P, which includes a sizable tech component, tumbled 5.8% for the week and entered bear market territory, meaning that it is down at least 20% from its previous high. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell slightly.
Investors remain anxious about high inflation, which reached a 40-year high for May, continued economic fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the increasing likelihood of a global recession. Last Wednesday, the U.S. central bank boosted interest rates by the highest increment in more than a quarter-century – three-quarters of a percentage point – its latest step to stem rising prices. Other central banks have also recently raised rates amid ongoing increases in energy prices.
Meanwhile, crypto markets have also had to digest a series of debacles stretching to early May when the terraUSD stablecoin (UST) collapsed. Last week, cryptocurrency lending platform Celsius announced it was halting withdrawals and crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital is facing possible insolvency after incurring at least $400 million in liquidations, according to a report. Coinbase (COIN) and a number of other major digital asset exchanges have also announced steep job cuts. The Fear & Greed Index has been lingering in extreme fear territory for weeks and is now at 6, near its all-time low on a scale of zero to 100.
BitBull's DiPasquale expects volatility in crypto pricing the next few days because of options expiries but he added that ""the macro trend is likely to remain bearish until we see the Federal Reserve changing or at least relaxing its stance in July's FOMC meeting.""
Analogue Gold Beats Its Digital Version
Bitcoin is called the ultimate store of value by its fans; a digital version of gold that maintains all the best characteristics of it as an inflation hedge while being more efficient and liquid thanks to blockchain technology, which the bitcoin protocol pioneered.
But as crypto faces a harsh winter, perhaps one of the worst on record with major crypto institutions on the verge of failure, faith in this paradigm is being tested.
Indeed, when compared to gold, bitcoin is down more than 55% year to date. Gold, in contrast, is up 2.45%.
And as bitcoin and ether ended the week in Asia attempting a break below $20,000 and $1,000, respectively, data shows the worst might be yet to come.
On-chain data, spotted by CryptoQuant, shows lots of bitcoin is on the move. CryptoQuant’s Ki Young Ju believes it's either crypto hedge funds that are filling up collaterals for long positions or market makers filling up liquidity to execute sell orders for their clients.
“For what it's worth, they're bearish in the short term either way,” he tweeted.
Keep in mind that just over a week ago, bitcoin was at $30,000.
U.S. Juneteenth holiday
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): People's Bank of China interest rate decision
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of The Hash on CoinDesk TV:
Tron’s TRX Jumps as DAO Deploys $220M for Token Purchase, Investors Pull Out $1.6B From Tether’s Stablecoin
""The Hash"" hosts discussed Tether's new wave of redemptions as fear of market contagion spread, Tron DAO deploying $220 million for token purchases and more.
Luna Only Makes Bermuda Love Stablecoins More: Digital assets are the future, Bermuda Premier David Burt said during the Consensus 2022 conference. He’s not worried about his country being shut out by jurisdictions like the European Union.
Terraform Labs, Founder, VC Firms Sued on Claims That Investors Were Misled: The plaintiff alleges the so-called ""Terra Tokens"" resembled securities, regardless of investor perception.
Bitcoin Plunges Below $20K for First Time Since December 2020; Ether Drops Below $1K: The continuing plunge in traditional financial markets and panic about crypto lending platforms sent bitcoin into the teens for the first time in more than 18 months.
Hard Times in Crypto Lead to Price and Macro Risk: Just the first in a series of risks we’re thinking about during these crypto down days.
Today's crypto explainer: How to Buy Ether
Other voices: Crypto billionaire says Fed is driving current downturn
""Now, with the failings of two key systemically risky enterprises – Celsius and the Terra Luna project – roiling the crypto markets, it’s my hope that people in this industry can finally appreciate the value of asking questions and finding failings. Kicking the tires on projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow."" (CoinDesk Chief Content Officer Michael Casey) ... ""Despite our efforts, we've been unable to get the whale to reduce their risk, or even get in contact with them. With the way things are trending with the whale's unresponsiveness, it's clear action must be taken to mitigate risk."" (Solana DeFi platform in a blog post)
UPDATE (June 19, 2022, 0:35 UTC): Adds information on Fear & Greed Index."
175,334,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/21/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-holds-steady-over-20k-usdcs-flippening-of-usdt-and-the-continued-stablecoin-bear-market/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Holds Steady Over 20K, USDC's ‘Flippening’ of USDT and the Stablecoin Bear Market",Ether and most major altcoins spent much of the day in the green; a crisis in confidence has put pressure on the USDT peg.,2022-06-21,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin clings tight near $21,000; ether also rises.
Insights: USDC's may be ""flippening"" of USDT, and the stablecoin bear market continues.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,621 +0.9%
Ether (ETH): $1,124 +1.7%
Bitcoin Rises – for Now; Ether Is in the Green
So far, so good this week in crypto markets, but investors may not want to raise their hopes for a long-term rebound.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization gained ground for a third consecutive day, jumping past $21,000 on Tuesday. Bitcoin was recently trading at about $20,600, up about 1% and far removed from the two-year low of under $18,000 it hit on Saturday.
Still, analysts were pessimistic about the rally's staying power, noting a rise in volatility perhaps tied to large investors buying on price dips and citing troubling underlying conditions that include global turbulence, rising prices and stress about a possible recession. All of that has plagued crypto markets for the past eight months. Investors are scared, and the occasional surge notwithstanding, may have assumed a defensive crouch until evidence emerges that the economy is on a longer upturn, analysts say.
Last month's collapse of the TerraUSD stablecoin (UST) and more recent fiascos involving the decentralized finance (DeFi) lending platform Celsius and crypto hedge fund Three Arrows have further stoked investors' fears.
""Last week was bad,"" Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer of digital investment management firm Arca, told CNBC. ""It was not unprecedented in the sense that we've had multiple 30% to 50% moves in short periods of time. But it was historically bad in the sense that it was the first time it was happening in conjunction with bad things happening everywhere else.""
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently trading at $1,130, up 1.7%. Other major altcoins were in the green, with DOGE up 10% and SOL rising more than 5%.
Cryptos' price increases dovetailed with equity markets, which rose amid investors' likely temporary return to riskier assets. The tech-focused Nasdaq climbed 2.5%, while the S&P 500, which has a heavy tech component, rose by nearly the same.
Still, in a Monday report, Goldman Sachs economists upped the likelihood of a recession to 30% from their previous prediction of 15%. Investors will be nervously watching Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress on Wednesday and Thursday. Powell has been adamant about the Fed's more aggressive moves to tame U.S. inflation in raising interest rates and reducing liquidity in the economy.
Arca's Dorman said that he expects crypto investors to continue ""to hunker down,"" and that will translate to ""less growth from growth companies in the [crypto] space, in hiring and new product launches."" Last week, as bitcoin's price sank, investors redeemed a net $5.8 million from short bitcoin funds in the seven days through June 17, crypto asset manager CoinShares wrote Monday in a report. (A ""short"" position in financial markets is a bet on a price decline.)
Yet Dorman noted that the current crash differs significantly from earlier steep downturns in crypto's history because of the range of products and services now available. ""I think people are going to flock to DeFi much faster than anyone expected because it holds up,"" he said. He was sanguine about the prospects of a recovery this year.
""My guess would be we probably start to see higher prices in the second half of this year,"" he said. ""There really isn't a lot of carnage in the applications themselves.""
S&P 500: 3,764 +2.4%
DJIA: 30,530 +2.1%
Nasdaq: 11,069 +2.5%
Gold: $1,833 -0.3%
USDC's ‘Flippening’ of USDT and the Continuation of the Stablecoin Bear Market
Tether (USDT) has been of particular interest to the crypto industry after last month's collapse of LUNA, because like with UST, there has been a lot of skepticism about what exactly is backing it. Interest in the reserves that back USDT isn’t new, but the general crisis of confidence in crypto has placed more pressure on USDT’s tenuous peg.
Recently, the number of transactions on USDC surpassed those on USDT. For long-time, stablecoin war observers, that's a substantial ""flippening."" USDT’s share of the supply of stablecoins in smart contracts is dropping fast. What began at around 20% in January is now dipping to 13%. But what is unexpected is that USDC, which doesn’t have the same questions about its reserves as they are properly held in trust, is also seeing its price drop.
This is largely a product of the primary use case for stablecoins, DeFi platforms have seen their locked-in value decline significantly since the beginning of the year. What was once a $236 billion market when the year began, according to DeFiLlama, now has only $74 billion locked in as traders flee.
With that comes a big decline in the number of active addresses on both USDT and USDC, which is to be expected because the liquidity contributed to these protocols is often in stablecoins.
But again, all this seems to be a problem localized in the worlds of DeFi and stablecoins. Even as the price of bitcoin declines as institutions and miners sell, retail investors continues to buy what they can with the number of wallets containing more than 0.1 BTC rising from 3.4 million as of May 16 to around 3.6 million by Tuesday, according to Glassnode data.
So while there might be trouble in the land of digitized dollars and DeFi, there’s still confidence in digital gold (though its analog version might have been a better investment).
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
Point Zero Forum in Switzerland
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): UK consumer price index (MoM/YoY/May)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Outlook, Who’s Buying the Big Dip? The First US Short Bitcoin-Linked ETF
Bitcoin bounced back to over $21,000. But how long will the relief rally last? Simeon Hyman of ProShares Global joined ""All About Bitcoin"" to discuss the bitcoin market and the ProShares Short Bitcoin Strategy ETF that launched today. Also, Nelson Hsieh of Volt Equity weighed in on the bipartisan crypto bill introduced by Sens. Cynthia Lummis (R.-Wyo.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D.-N.Y.). Volt Equity believes it could it be a boon for the bitcoin mining industry.
'Enormous Outflows' From Largest Bitcoin ETF May Have Triggered BTC Crash: The Canadian Purpose Bitcoin ETF lost half of its assets last Friday likely because of a huge liquidation, an Arcane Research analyst said in a note.
CoinShares Report Shows Major Outflows From Bitcoin Short Funds: Digital-asset investment products see $39 million in outflows last week, with total assets under management reaching their lowest level since February 2021.
Miner Bitfarms Sold Almost Half Its Bitcoin to Reduce Debt: The miner sold 3,000 BTC in the past week to improve liquidity and reduce indebtedness.
BlockFi Receives $250M Credit Facility From FTX: The proceeds will be used to fulfill client balances across all accounts.
Solana NFT Marketplace Magic Eden Raises $130M at $1.6B Valuation: The large raise comes during an otherwise downcast crypto climate.
FUD or Facts? Terra, Celsius Show Value of Asking Questions: Kicking the tires on crypto projects and holding people accountable for flaws within them is how the industry will improve and grow.
Other voices: A crypto lending app tried to take over a ‘whale’ account to stop it from collapsing the system (CNBC)
3oSE...uRbE has started moving funds (Solent Protocol for lending and borrowing on Solana/Twitter) ... ""One thing most people don't fully grasp: it takes years, often decades, to go from a new infrastructure-level technology breakthrough (like crypto) to a vibrant ecosystem of mainstream applications. (Paradigm co-founder Fred Ehrsam) ... ""Today @BlockFi signed a term sheet with @FTX_Official to secure a $250M revolving credit facility providing us with access to capital that further bolsters our balance sheet and platform strength. (BlockFi CEO Zac Prince/Twitter) ... ""Approval of an ETF that provides inverse exposure to #Bitcoin futures could be a positive sign for #crypto. Here’s a 🧵 on why..."" (Grayscale Investments CEO Michael Sonnenshein)
CORRECTION (June 21, 2022, 23:58 UTC): Bitcoin's price over the weekend hit a two-year low."
176,330,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/22/first-mover-asia-defis-resilience-during-market-slowdown-bitcoin-slumps-near-20k/,First Mover Asia: DeFi’s Resilience During the Market Slowdown; Bitcoin Slumps Near $20K,"DeFi apps have avoided any massive on-chain liquidations, surprises or smart contract failures, even as crypto markets have shed value.",2022-06-22,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin loses its bounce to drop below $20,000 before regaining ground; other major cryptos decline.
Insights: DeFi keeps its head up in the current crypto whirlwind.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $20,079 -2.3%
Ether (ETH): $1,057 -5.6%
Bitcoin Loses Its Bounce
So much for good things.
Bitcoin ended a three-day run of price increases on Wednesday, sinking below the $20,000 threshold it surpassed two days earlier before regaining this perch later in the afternoon.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $20,100, down more than 2% over the past 24 hours. The decline came just two days after bitcoin cracked $21,000 as investors swooped in following a weekend dip, and amid a brief lull in the crypto calamities that have afflicted the industry in recent weeks.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently changing hands at approximately $1,050, down over 5% in the past 24 hours. Other major cryptos were well into the red with the token of troubled crypto lending platform Celsius (CEL) off by as much as over 20% and WAVES down 13%.
Investors once again shied away from riskier assets while digesting the latest inflation remarks by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, who testified to the Senate Banking Committee that the U.S. might not avert a recession as the Fed continues its current monetary hawkishness. In separate commentaries, the CEO of Deutsche Bank and analysts from Citigroup predicted a 50% likelihood of recession. Fed critics have maintained that the bank waited too long to boost interest rates, forcing it to adopt the harsh measures that seem likely to spur economic contraction.
“It would have been better if the Fed took ‘transient’ inflation seriously earlier this year instead of downplaying it,"" Mark Lurie, CEO of crypto software provider Shipyard Software, wrote to CoinDesk in a text. ""But at this point, the Fed is doing the right thing by raising interest rates – inflation is public enemy #1.""
""The downside is that it’s too late now to do so painlessly, and Powell is likely again downplaying the risk of a recession. It’s probably already here. This bodes poorly for crypto short term. Investors who may have bought the BTC dip earlier in the week may be realizing there will not be a quick recovery, driving today’s slow drop back to $20K.""
Crypto news was more nuanced on Wednesday than during recent months, when the daily drumbeat of industry mishaps and mini crises weighed on prices. On the upside, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) granted in-principle digital token payment licenses to crypto exchange Crypto.com and two other companies. The licenses will enable the three firms to offer services in the country, which has upped its scrutiny of crypto assets in recent months.
Later in the day, Jon Cunliffe, a deputy governor at the Bank of England, struck an upbeat note in a speech at the Point Zero conference in Zurich, saying that crypto technology's ability to eliminate middlemen in financial trading shouldn't lead to the kind of risk shortfalls that caused the 2008 financial meltdown. Cunliffe expressed faith in crypto, saying the technology will outlive current volatility, just as the internet economy ultimately overcame the dot-com crash of 2001. His comments came little over a week after BOE governor Andrew Bailey reiterated his stance that cryptocurrencies have ""no intrinsic value.""
Elsewhere, Australian bitcoin miner Iris Energy (IRIS) increased its hashrate estimate to 4.3 exahash/second (EH/s) for the year.
Voyager Digital (VOYG) shares fell more than 60% after the crypto broker disclosed its exposure to beleaguered hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC) and said it may issue a ""notice of default"" to the crypto fund if it fails to make a loan repayment. Voyager's exposure to 3AC consists of 15,250 bitcoins ($370 million) and $350 million USDC, the company said in a statement Wednesday.
Shares of crypto exchange Coinbase, which have received a monthslong battering during the crypto crash, fell nearly 10% to close just under $52, near their all-time low.
Yet Lurie of Shipyard Software said optimistically that the recent crypto downturn was a sign of crypto's maturation.
""The more sensitive it is to macro conditions, the more proof there is that it’s taken seriously as an asset class part of a professionally balanced portfolio,"" he said. ""That’s a positive sign long term.”
S&P 500: 3,759 -0.1%
DJIA: 30,483 -0.1%
Nasdaq: 11,053 -0.1%
Gold: $1,838 +0.3%
DeFi Keeps Its Head Up in the Current Crypto Whirlwind
The decentralized finance (DeFi) sector has held up well amid troubles at centralized crypto companies this month. There were hardly any massive on-chain liquidations, surprises or smart contract failures across popular DeFi apps, including Aave, Compound, Maker and others, even as crypto markets shed value.
“Established DeFi lending protocols like Aave, Compound and Maker have not had any downtime or withdrawal limitations due to excessive risk-taking of borrowers,” Alex Svanevik, founder of crypto data firm Nansen, shared in Twitter messages with CoinDesk.
“The transparency and real-time monitoring of on-chain transactions enable everyone to see liquidations and value at risk at those levels,” Svanevik added.
Aave, Compound see massive transactions
Svanevik highlighted that over $6 billion was repaid on Aave and Compound, both lending and borrowing platforms, which equated to a 64% reduction in their debt outstanding.
“That’s almost twice as much reduction in TVL (total value locked) compared to last year's May crash (-36%), and we have seen some very large investors repay massive positions, most notably a single wallet repaying 140K ETH on Aave after some initial on-chain liquidations last week,” he said.
Such moves didn't cause any unforeseen contagion damage in the crypto ecosystem, a showcase of the resilience of DeFi applications that rely on smart contracts to conduct financial transactions instead of centralized third parties.
Meanwhile, Svanevik said the centralized manner of operations in some crypto businesses caused the downturns of the past few weeks: “What we are seeing is that the shadow credit system across centralized lenders have enabled excessive leverage and risk into the system with little to no visibility to users until forced selling started and withdrawal stops hit last week, reminiscent of Archegos margin calls last year or Robinhood’s 2020 outage.”
Svanevik noted that the percent of holdings in stablecoins for wallets labeled as smart money by Nansen spiked to all-time highs last week – suggesting a sign of “aggressive de-risking” as well as repayment of on-chain loans.
“We are already seeing signs of this ratio coming down again, indicating smart money is deploying again,” Svanevik concluded.
The DeFi sector did, however, see some governance drama in the past week at Solana-based lending protocol Solend, as reported, with the potential issue subverted on Tuesday.
Market capitalization fell under $1 trillion earlier this month as recession and inflation fears led to a slowdown in broader markets. Bitcoin saw a nearly 12-week decline that pushed prices to as low as below $18,000 last week – marking the first time the asset fell below the highs of the previous cycle.
A decline in crypto prices in early May caused contagion risks within the crypto ecosystem, starting with the implosion of Terra’s UST stablecoin in mid-May. The dollar-pegged coin dropped to a few cents while the protocol’s flagship LUNA tokens plunged nearly 100%.
That caused the value locked on Terra applications to tumble by $28 billion and lead to Three Arrows Capital seeing hundreds of millions of dollars in losses.
In June, crypto lender Celsius Network saw troubles as it disabled user withdrawals, citing “extreme market conditions.” That led to rumors of insolvency among crypto circles. Its peers were seemingly affected as well: Lender BlockFi said this week it had secured a $250 million credit facility from crypto exchange FTX to bolster its “balance sheet and platform strength.”
The 4th annual NFT Industry Event (NFT.NYC)
Point Zero Forum in Switzerland
4 p.m. HKT/SGT(8 a.m. UTC): European Central Bank Economic bulletin
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Slips Ahead of Powell Testimony, Pharrell Joins Doodles NFTs as it Announces First Fundraise
Julian Holguin, CEO of popular NFT project Doodles, revealed the company's partnership with musician Pharrell Williams, new project Doodles 2 and the project's first funding round led by Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian. Plus, Prime Trust Chief Financial Officer Rodrigo Vicuna provided crypto markets analysis, and e-sports and gaming brand FaZe Clan Chief Strategy Officer Kai Henry weighed in on the state of the metaverse and Web3.
Coinbase Shares Slump With Crypto Prices as Binance.US Starts Zero-Fee BTC Trading: Cryptocurrency prices resumed their slump, hurting Coinbase and related equities.
Tech Giants Create Metaverse Standards Forum for Software and Terminology Standards: Meta Platforms, Microsoft, Nvidia, Unity, Sony and 30 other companies are coming together to build the infrastructure for an interoperable metaverse.
Crypto Exchange dYdX to Start a Standalone Blockchain: The layer 1 blockchain will be built in the Cosmos ecosystem.
Qatar at 'Foundation Stage' of CBDC Exploration, Central Bank Governor Says: The Gulf state central banker praised the ""innovation"" of crypto assets.
Is Sam Bankman-Fried a Modern-Day Robber Baron?: In bailing out the crypto industry, the digital asset titan is acting like at least one Gilded Age financier.
Other voices: Crypto’s frozen mystery: The fate of billions in Celsius deposits (Washington Post)
""Later this year, we’ll begin sunsetting Coinbase Pro to migrate all advanced trading into one unified Coinbase account, bringing customers access to popular features like staking, Borrow, dapp wallet, and Coinbase Card from a single platform balance."" (Coinbase blog post) ... ""Over the last few years, we have seen other governments make real progress in establishing a central bank digital currency. The longer the United States government waits to embrace this innovation, the further we fall behind both foreign governments and the private sector. It is time for Congress to consider and move forward with legislation that would authorize a U.S. CBDC. I hope that this white paper will contribute meaningfully to that dialogue."" (U.S. Rep. Jim Himes proposal for a USDC) ... ""Central-bank officials have made rising yields an explicit policy goal. Higher yields translate to higher borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, which should eventually lead to less borrowing, reduced spending and a slower rise in consumer prices."" (The Wall Street Journal) ..."
177,336,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/24/first-mover-americas-axs-up-15-on-ronin-network-news-btc-at-21k/,"First Mover Americas: AXS up 15% on Ronin Network News, BTC at $21K","The latest moves in crypto markets in context for June 24, 2022.",2022-06-24,"Good morning, and welcome to First Mover. I’m Lyllah Ledesma, here to take you through the latest in crypto markets, news and insights.
Price point: Altcoins outperform bitcoin for a second day. Axie Infinity's AXS is up 14% after announcing it's going to reimburse those affected by the Ronin network $600 million exploit.
Market Moves: Coinbase has launched its first crypto derivatives product for retail traders. The company is hoping to capitalize on a market with $3 trillion in volume worldwide.
Altcoins outperformed bitcoin (BTC) for a second day as Polygon’s MATIC and Axie Infinity’s AXS posted gains above 15%.
Bitcoin is up 1.6% on the day, trading at around $20,900. Traders are looking at this weekend as another testing period for the cryptocurrency.
Polygon’s MATIC is among the top performers on Friday, rallying 18% on the day. MATIC was trading at 58 cents at press time.
The uptick comes as the protocol launched a product for allowing more private voting in decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) and announced it has partnered with KlimaDAO (a decentralized collective of environmentalists, developers and entrepreneurs) as part of an environmental initiative. Read more on that here.
Although MATIC is outperforming the rest of the crypto market, it is worth noting that it's 80% down from its all-time high of $2.90 reached in December 2021.
Also surging on Friday is play-to-earn Axie Infinity’s AXS token. This comes after the Ronin development team – which is funded by Axie Infinity creators Sky Mavis – tweeted Thursday that it plans to reopen its bridge next week.
In March, Ronin, the Ethereum-linked sidechain, suffered a $600 million hack. The network witnessed a loss of $625 million in USDC and ether (ETH).
The team has promised to reimburse all users who were affected by the exploit after the reopening of the bridge.
It is not clear whether the AXS price surge is related to the news, because the announcement happened Thursday and the price increase began early Friday morning.
The token peaked at $17.30 after trading at around $14 on Thursday.
By Aoyon Ashraf
Coinbase Launches First Crypto Derivatives Product Aimed at Retail Traders
Coinbase Derivatives Exchange, formerly known as FairX, is launching its first crypto derivatives product this month, hoping to attract more retail traders.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission-regulated futures exchange will launch its derivatives product, Nano Bitcoin futures (BIT), on June 27, according to a statement sent to CoinDesk. “The crypto derivatives market represents $3T in volume worldwide and we believe that additional product development and accessibility will unlock significant growth,” the statement said.
Coinbase said it's also awaiting regulatory approval on its own futures commission merchant (FCM) license to offer margined futures contracts for its clients.
The launch comes at a highly volatile period in the crypto market, set off by the dramatic collapses of Terra’s LUNA, crypto lender Celsius and crypto fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC). Bitcoin’s price has fallen about 56% this year, while Ethereum’s native token ether is down roughly 70%.
Coinbase bought FairX earlier this year to launch crypto derivatives products. FairX launched its futures exchange platform in May 2021 after receiving regulatory approvals in late 2020.
Futures contracts are smaller in size, require less up-front capital than traditional bitcoin futures products and can be used as a hedge for trading strategies for both institutional and retail traders. “At 1/100th of the size of a Bitcoin, it requires less up-front capital than traditional futures products and creates a real opportunity for significant expansion of retail participation in US regulated crypto futures markets,” according to the statement.
However, not everyone sees derivatives as a product suitable for retail traders.
Read the full story here: Coinbase Launches First Crypto Derivatives Product Aimed at Retail Traders
Convex Finance Sets Up New URLs After Website Address Is Hijacked At least five wallets were affected in the front-end exploit. No funds on verified contracts were exploited.
Digital Toy Platform Cryptoys Raises $23M From a16z, Dapper Labs, Mattel The company recently secured a partnership with toy manufacturing giant Mattel to transform some of its most famous products into playable avatars, which can be sold as NFTs.
THORChain Mainnet Goes Live on Seven Networks; RUNE Spikes The much-awaited network went live after nearly four years of development.
Harmony Ropes in FBI After Losing $100M in Exploit; ONE Token Slumps Developers said they are working with national authorities and forensic specialists to identify the culprit.
Coinbase Launches First Crypto Derivatives Product Aimed at Retail Traders Coinbase Derivatives Exchange hopes to capitalize on a market that is $3 trillion in volume worldwide and provide hedging options for traders.
Today’s newsletter was edited by Parikshit Mishra and produced by Stephen Alpher."
178,340,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/24/with-bitwise-and-grayscale-decisions-looming-spot-bitcoin-etf-approval-hopes-are-running-low/,"With Bitwise and Grayscale Decisions Looming, Spot Bitcoin ETF Approval Hopes Are Running Low",Final deadlines for approval by the SEC for the two investment firms' applications are fast approaching.,2022-06-24,"Expectations for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's approval of two upcoming spot bitcoin ETF (exchange-traded fund) applications are low, and have faded since the approval of Teucrium’s futures-based product that initially provided some optimism.
The two applications currently on investors’ radar are those of the Bitwise Bitcoin ETP Trust, with a decision deadline of July 1, and the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), with a deadline of July 6. (Grayscale’s parent company is the Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk as an independent subsidiary.) Both investment issuers have had their current applications delayed multiple times by the SEC and the upcoming dates represent a final deadline for the SEC to make a decision.
Bloomberg Intelligence analyst James Seyffart, who closely tracks the ETF sector, told CoinDesk he views the approval of either application as “highly unlikely.” Seyffart said the SEC has been clear about what it wants to see before giving the green light to a spot bitcoin product.
“The [SEC is] not approving a spot bitcoin ETF until a ‘market of significant size’ has surveillance-sharing agreements or is regulated by the likes of the SEC or CFTC,” Seyffart said.
Thus, until a “spot bitcoin exchange or likely multiple spot bitcoin exchanges come under the purview of the SEC and/or CFTC, the SEC isn't going to approve a spot bitcoin ETF,” he said.
Similar thoughts were shared by Nate Geraci, president of The ETF Store, an investment advisory firm specializing in ETFs. “The overwhelming market assumption is that the SEC will disapprove these ETFs,” Geraci told CoinDesk, adding that SEC Chair Gary Gensler hasn’t provided any change in communications around these approvals.
“Chairman Gensler has consistently messaged that until the SEC has some level of direct regulatory oversight of crypto exchanges, a spot bitcoin ETF won’t be approved,” Geraci said.
To be sure, the recent narrowing of the discount between GBTC's share price and the price of bitcoin has led some to speculate there's optimism in the marketplace regarding an approval Other observers foresee an approval at some point, though the recent turmoil from firms such as Celsius and BlockFi may cause the SEC to slow down any approvals in the near-term.
“It seems that it’s no longer a question of ‘if’ but just a question of ‘when’ the SEC will finally approve a spot ETF,” Bradley Duke, co-CEO of London-based ETF issuer ETC Group. “But the current crypto market turbulence, including the fallout from the collapse of UST and Terra Luna and the distress of major crypto finance firms like Celsius and BlockFi, could all contribute to giving the SEC reason to delay further opening of the floodgates.”
And a dragged-out process may not be the best sign for the sector, according to Oppenheimer equity research analyst Owen Lau.
“It appears to me that the longer it takes, the farther the industry tends to walk away from the SEC, and the harder it becomes to get the approval,” Lau told CoinDesk. “The chance that it might take a very long time to get the spot ETFs approval, or it might never get approved by the SEC, has been increasing.”
While Bitwise Chief Investment Officer Matt Hougan wasn’t able to comment on his company’s specific application with the SEC, he’s optimistic the U.S. market will eventually see a spot bitcoin ETF.
“In general, I think it's right to look at the SEC's recent actions and see continued progress in their comfort with the bitcoin space,” Hougan told CoinDesk.
“We now have a 1940 Act bitcoin futures ETF, a 1933 Act bitcoin futures ETF and an inverse bitcoin futures ETF,” Hougan noted, referring to previous approvals of bitcoin-related ETFs. “Each one represents increasing comfort with the bitcoin market.”
In the end, a spot bitcoin ETF will lower costs and make the way American investors access the bitcoin market more secure, Hougan argued.
For its part, Grayscale has been more assertive in seeking an approval. Some of its efforts have included marketing to urge members of the public to voice their support to the SEC, a May meeting with the SEC and the strengthening of its legal team with the addition of Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who previously served as a solicitor general in the Obama Administration.
GBTC, with about $13 billion in assets under management, currently trades at a 29% discount to NAV.
Earlier this week, Grayscale CEO Michael Sonnenshein took to Twitter to argue that the recent launch of an inverse bitcoin futures ETF may be a positive sign for the sector and the eventual prospects of a spot bitcoin ETF.
Read more: Grayscale, Bitwise Confident a Spot Bitcoin ETF Will Be Approved Soon
CORRECTION (June 29, 15:26 UTC): Corrected date of decision deadline on Bitwise's bitcoin ETF application to July 1 from June 29."
179,275,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/24/the-case-for-suing-celsius-terraform-labs/,"The Case for Suing Celsius, Terraform Labs",A securities lawyer discusses the duty of care crypto lenders may have for customer deposits and whether UST's founders misled the public.,2022-06-24,"After a series of apparent collapses, defaults and liquidity crises across protocols like Terra and crypto-affiliated lending platforms and hedge funds, we’re seeing the first signs of what is likely to be a wave of legal action from users and investors who lost money.
But those cases will require navigating some tricky questions. Because lending protocols in particular have been studiously vague in describing the exact nature of their services, it's not clear what sort of responsibilities these companies have when it comes to depositor's funds.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
“The jury is still out on that,” according to Marcelo Diaz-Cortes, a securities litigation lawyer with the Miami-based firm LKLSG. Diaz-Cortes contrasts currently distressed crypto projects with straightforward fraud cases he’s helped litigate, such as Argyle Coin, a supposedly diamond-backed token that was in reality a Ponzi scheme. “It was a straight fraud – it didn’t really exist.”
That wasn’t the case with the most dramatic collapse of recent weeks, the unwinding of the TerraUSD “algorithmic stablecoin” in May. That token’s design was so deeply flawed that its demise was easy for experts to predict – but its mechanism was described transparently and, it seems, mostly accurately.
“It wasn’t a secret as to how the thing functioned,” Diaz-Cortes said. “If that was the way it really worked, [judging it fraudulent] would be a tough sell for a court, for a jury.”
That doesn’t mean there’s no case. In standard securities cases, fraud can still be found “when someone at the company or promoting it had a little extra knowledge and didn’t disclose it,” according to Diaz-Cortes.
A court might, for instance, examine statements from Do Kwon or Terraform Labs about transitioning UST to a backed model, or rumors that the token was secretly bailed out by third parties when it previously lost its peg in May of 2021. Either could imply that, despite public statements, the team knew its creation didn’t actually work as advertised.
Another good sign for anyone pursuing relief directly from Terra’s creators is that they appear to now be under investigation in Korea, one of the group’s centers of operation. While such investigations are usually kept under wraps until they conclude, they can still provide firepower for plaintiffs.
“It’s certainly something we put in our complaints,” Diaz-Cortes said. “Look, the government’s sniffing, the government filed an action. … At hearings, we’ll point to it as circumstantial evidence of something fishy going on.”
Some wiped-out Lunatics have instead focused legal firepower on the exchanges, with one class-action suit targeting Binance.US, an exchange that sold the UST token and described it, according to the complaint, as “safe.” Diaz-Cortes believes such suits against exchanges could have legs if an exchange or other promoter was “not completely forthright about the potential [risk] exposure.”
See also: What Crypto Can Learn From Elizabeth Holmes' Fraud | Opinion
The same group of plaintiffs, which includes pseudonymous Terra victim and researcher Fatman, has said it will also file suit against Terraform Labs, the entity that created a litany of apps – like the lending protocol Anchor – that used the LUNA and UST tokens. That possibility highlights one of the key underlying points in the Terra case: Despite leaning on the rhetoric of “decentralization,” Terra was tightly controlled by a small inner group. That could in and of itself become further grounds for claims of misrepresentation and fraud.
The “lending platform” Celsius could be accused of similarly exaggerated claims – while it tied itself rhetorically to DeFi, or decentralized finance, it is an entirely centralized entity that merely acted as an intermediary to DeFi. That also makes it a ripe target for lawsuits after it froze withdrawals – potentially a prelude to default.
One early, if flaccid, signal came from YouTube influencer BitBoy, who last week announced his intent to file a class action against Celsius after it froze his funds. Just days later, BitBoy withdrew the proposal after remembering that he had been paid to promote Celsius, as he was for years paid directly to promote scams. This is the epitome of the extremely useful expression “hoisted by his own petard.” Truly a shame.
Regardless, more competent actors are sure to draw a bead on Celsius. The problem is that it and similar “lending platforms” have avoided clear classification and regulation. Depositors seeking high yields often used these platforms as crypto banks, despite the lack of regulation and consumer protections.
In fact, recent regulatory actions taken against interest-bearing accounts at lending platform BlockFi characterize the offerings as unregistered securities. BlockFi itself isn’t facing quite the same financial problems as Celsius, so it might not wind up a target of private lawsuits. But if a court thinks Celsius or a similar platform were also actually selling securities rather than banking services, it could be harmful for depositors because buying a security doesn’t imply any right to redeem it for a specific price.
Another legal question is what Celsius actually did with depositors’ money to earn the yield it passed onto them. As CoinDesk reported this month, the platform began pursuing increasingly risky strategies starting in early 2021, including sending client funds to volatile DeFi “yield farms,” later including Luna’s Anchor protocol.
Though Celsius apparently withdrew funds from Anchor before the Terra collapse, the general investment strategy could face scrutiny in court.
Under conventional banking law, there’s no duty to disclose the loans or other strategies used to generate yield on customer deposits.
“[Banks] don’t owe customers special duties of care. They just owe those deposits back when you ask for it,” Diaz-Cortes said. “You’re not able to bring in issues as to, ‘you shouldn’t have done this with the money.’”
He added that “it’s just a black and white thing” whether banks can meet their obligations and “not necessarily fraud” if they’ve re-hypothecated funds.
See also: How the Feds Are Prosecuting an NFT Insider Trading Scheme | Opinion
But that’s only true up to a certain point. “The question will be whether they did something reckless, fraudulent and irresponsible” with client funds, Diaz-Cortes said. “It’s going to come down to what they knew and what was happening behind the curtain.”
Alternatively, plaintiffs might argue that Celsius wasn’t a bank at all but rather a broker investing on their behalf.
“In terms of these crypto deposit accounts, they’re a little bit of both [bank and brokerage],” Diaz-Cortes said. “You’re not just putting $10 in and expecting $10 back. You’re leaving it there [to earn] interest.”
That could lower the bar for what counts as fraud, according to Diaz-Cortes. “With brokerage accounts, sometimes you do get those claims that this was advertised as a safe investment, and you breached the duty.”"
180,276,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/06/26/opaque-platforms-and-intertwined-protocols-pose-big-risk-to-crypto/,Opaque Platforms and Intertwined Protocols Pose Big Risk to Crypto,Second article in a series about risks we’re thinking about during these crypto down days.,2022-06-26,"We’re still firmly in Hard Times. Sure, my article last week about price and macro risk was published just before an eight-hour flurry when bitcoin gained 6.35%, but both hazards remain salient.
This article is the second in a three-part series about the risks facing cryptocurrency markets right now. Next week we'll look at public company risk.
This week we'll explore platform and protocol risk, which is one of my favorite topics in crypto because it’s the main area people try to get a “gotcha!” on me by conflating the latest failing in decentralized finance (DeFi) as a failing of Bitcoin. But this conflation, coupled with all the countless crypto hacks and failed blockchain projects, is exactly why we should pay attention to this risk vector.
Anyway, here goes two of three …
– George Kaloudis
What exactly platform and protocol risk means is straightforward. Protocol risk includes the risk associated with failures of the various crypto projects (i.e. protocols), like Bitcoin, Ethereum and Terra. Platform risk includes the risk associated with the failures of the institutions that have cropped up around crypto (i.e. platforms), like Coinbase (COIN), Three Arrows Capital (3AC) and Celsius Network (Celsius).
You’re reading Crypto Long & Short, our weekly newsletter featuring insights, news and analysis for the professional investor. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Sunday.
But what has really made these two risks worth discussing in tandem is the fact that these protocols and platforms are intertwined.
The collapse of Terra was just a month ago. Last week, Celsius Network, a company that offers high-yield products on crypto, paused withdrawals from its platform as it faces liquidity issues. Also last week, it was confirmed that prominent crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital is facing insolvency following poorly timed bets on Luna, GBTC and stETH.
When Terra collapsed, it dragged down the market meaningfully. Why it did was obvious (without hindsight) for two main reasons:
Terra was interoperable with other protocols, meaning it aimed to work in tandem with other crypto projects (such as the Cosmos IBC), and so when Terra went down, all the protocols it touched suffered collateral damage.
Terra held 80,000 bitcoins (BTC), which it liquidated in a failed attempt to protect the protocol, and a well-known entity selling 80,000 bitcoins in a short time frame put an immense amount of selling pressure on bitcoin’s price.
And that was just Terra. There has been a glut of DeFi scams, hacks and exploits plaguing crypto protocols with at least $5 billion of funds lost according to DEFIYIELD’s REKT database. Examples include Ronin for $625 million, Poly for $600 million and Wormhole for $326 million. Day by day, as the dizzying number of crypto protocols coming to life becomes more dizzying, the potential for one exploit to take down multiple protocols increases.
One piece of bad technology can take down entire swathes of capital. That, in and of itself, is a systemic risk.
As of this writing, Celsius and 3AC still exist, but there’s no denying they are adding to the stress on the system.
For its part, Celsius offers retail customers yield in exchange for holding their coins. Its founder, Alex Mashinsky, has described Celsius as a platform that generates a certain amount of profit by lending assets, similar to banks.
Except.
Celsius has moved from providing short-term loans to market makers and arbitrage traders to deploying capital in DeFi’s lending protocols, which allow for higher-yielding strategies. Higher yield comes with higher risk. Higher risk than (and with fewer assurances than) any responsible bank would be comfortable with. There’s nothing wrong with offering yield, but there is something troubling about offering yield by way of putting customer assets at risk. And that increased risk profile has come to bear.
Following Celsius’ announcement that it was freezing withdrawals from the platform, my colleague Oliver Knight wrote a great article for CoinDesk about Celsius in which he quipped:
Meanwhile, 3AC, an actual leveraged crypto hedge fund, looks likely to fail after making some bad bets. This seems less bad than a Celsius insolvency, given 3AC’s customers and counterparties aren’t regular people. But it might get close to as bad for two reasons:
It shows that the mighty can fall, given most people in crypto considered 3AC to be an impressive firm run by “smart people.”
Hedge funds place many different bets with many different counterparties using many different techniques to use an undetermined amount of effective leverage to make More Money Than God.
The former wouldn’t be so bad if the latter didn’t mean that this failure by smart people meant that a lot of different entities (and eventually regular people) were affected. There is worry that 3AC’s failure will lead to a “contagion event” across all of crypto.
3AC placed enough margin bets so that its insolvency could set off cascading liquidations across trading desks, DeFi lending protocols and exchanges. In effect: Counterparty A will be forced to sell assets to avoid complete loss, pushing asset prices down, which leads to Counterparty B doing the same. And so on as asset values cascade down toward zero.
I submit that if Terra is Bear Stearns and Celsius is Lehman Brothers, maybe 3AC is Long-Term Capital Management.
In fairness, this isn’t necessarily a failure of the DeFi protocols because the leverage 3AC employed was generally between entities and on protocols. But therein lies the point. Platform risk is platform risk because of a lack of transparency.
So if we put together the fact that crypto protocols are becoming more interdependent and that platforms are still operating opaquely, it is clear that we could be in for more pain if we protect the status quo. It is easy to imagine a world where we face another massive DeFi hack during a 3AC-like price-induced insolvency. It could be much worse.
In all, that’s a lot of doom and gloom for one newsletter, but I (as a bitcoiner) want to make something abundantly clear. The Bitcoin protocol is still working as designed. Bitcoin supporters like to say “tick tock, next block” in times of market stress; a dedication to the Bitcoin blockchain that continually operates, adding blocks to the chain no matter how many (or few) dollars you have to sell to buy 1 BTC (as long as someone is running mining equipment).
In a world where shoddy technology development and the lack of transparency by surrounding platforms can spell disaster, perhaps there is something to be said about keeping it simple."
181,339,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/27/ms-crypto-goes-to-washington/,Ms. Crypto Goes to Washington,"The Lummis-Gillibrand bill represents a mainstreaming of crypto, even if it's unlikely to pass.",2022-06-27,"Crypto clearly is going mainstream. The drama of the recent bust cycle in the recurring boom-and-bust in crypto prices provided a dramatic backdrop to the introduction of the Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act, laying out a comprehensive regulatory framework for cryptocurrency.
Its introduction received extensive fanfare in the media.
Adelle Nazarian is the CEO of the American Blockchain PAC, which protects innovation in blockchain and digital assets in the U.S. and opposes legislation that limits the growth of crypto assets.
Todd August White is Managing Partner of Rulon & White Governance Strategies and the founder of the American Blockchain PAC.
Don’t worry, this column won’t go too deep into the weeds. For specifics, see the official section by section overview and commentary by Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) at Medium.
At the risk of being slightly impolitic, this legislation signals the mainstreaming of crypto. But it won’t be enacted this year.
Virtually all political junkies believe that the congressional deck is going to be thoroughly shuffled this coming November. Therefore, the bill’s longer-term prospects are also in question.
Additionally, this legislation – while technically bipartisan – was introduced with just two sponsors. Neither dominates even one of the four committees of jurisdiction (agriculture, on which Sen. Gillibrand serves; banking, on which Sen. Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.) serves; intelligence; and finance) which it will have to navigate to get to the floor.
Much less, there is no sign of its commanding a 60-vote majority to carry it over the formidable filibuster hurdle. Even gaining a simple majority is no mulligan. The left is already saying that it does not regulate hard enough. The Center for American Progress critiqued it as, “The status quo would be better than this bill.”
Read More: Yellen Call for 'Responsible' Crypto Innovation Is Right
Meanwhile, most Republicans will likely see it as regulating too much. Even if Senate passage is secured, Republican House passage and a Biden signature are not to be taken for granted.
The cryptoscenti are grateful for finally having something bipartisan with which to work. Many advocacy groups wish to stay in the sponsors’ good graces. Thus, most crypto advocates are too political to inventory the many hurdles. That said, let’s code switch here.
This legislation does represent an authentic rite of passage: Ms. Crypto goes to Washington!
In theory, a great leap forward for cryptocurrency! That said, as America’s greatest yogi, Yogi Berra, taught us, “In theory there is no difference between theory and practice but in practice there is.”
There are a lot of crucial details to be dealt with, in practice.
Let’s celebrate how the legislation’s debut included a marquee appearance by both Senate sponsors at Washington Post Live's “The Evolution of Money: Cryptocurrency Regulation.” That policypalooza also featured the Rostin Behnam, chair of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); Dante Disparte, chief strategy officer and head of global policy at Circle; and Tomicah Tillemann, global chief policy officer at Haun Ventures.
Disparte and Tillemann nicely summed up the general consensus in the room and in the media: The bill is unlikely to be enacted in the 117th Congress. Yet, they legitimately applauded it as a first step toward a comprehensive regulatory structure to protect the public without stifling the sector.
With a great deal of important matters still to be ironed out.
How great a deal? As capitalism’s inventor, Adam Smith, responded after the surrender of British Gen. Burgoyne at Saratoga, the turning point in the American Revolution, “There’s a great deal of ruin in a nation.”
The foundational premise of Lummis-Gillibrand seems to be to sort blockchain assets into two categories. The largest, bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), are to be treated as virtual commodities, regulated by the CFTC. Parallel to that, are thousands – the vast majority, of smaller cryptocurrencies – to be sorted out pursuant to a codified “Howey Test” and, mostly, treated as securities to be regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The Senators were emphatic about how extensively they consulted with the SEC and the CFTC in drafting the legislation. What is unclear is how the associated compliance costs, which can easily be prohibitive to early-stage startups, were quantified or are to be constrained.
Chair Gary Gensler’s SEC has taken an aggressive regulatory posture. It does not have a history as an easygoing regulator. The proposed legislation also would take the U.S. out of the algorithmic stablecoin race forever. This, presumably, is in reaction to Terra's $40 billion LUNA debacle.
Yet, it overlooks the success (to date) of Frax.finance. Is there a baby being thrown out with the bathwater?
The biggest handicap which Lummis-Gillibrand appears to face (assuming a regulation-skeptical Republican resurgence) is less in its details, however significant, but more so in its fundamentally regulatory-heavy posture.
The Big Reveals at the presentation were of the senators’ greater coziness with the regulators than with the innovators. These were presented in impromptu statements by Sens. Lummis and Gillibrand at The Post event.
Most concerning was an unscripted comment by Sen. Gillibrand calling not only for prospective regulation of Web3 (the category into which crypto presumably falls) but a push for retroactive regulation of the web itself (especially Web 2.0, presumably meaning social media). Sen. Gillibrand in her own words:
""If we get Web3 right, we can then maybe go back and look at Web 2.0 and say what would a data protection agency look like, to begin to look at that.”
Wait. What?
Despite its flaws, the worldwide web, including social media, has proven one of the great technology success stories in history; a multitrillion-dollar contribution to the U.S. economy and to America’s dominance of the commanding heights of tech.
Read More: SEC Chair Gensler Suggests Lummis-Gillibrand Bill May ‘Undermine’ Market Protections
Sen. Gillibrand thus casually revealed an extreme regulatory agenda: a promise to extensively regulate the web, Web3 and retroactively Web 2.0. This is unlikely to climb the wall of attracting 10 Republicans to afford passage through the Senate.
Big Reg will probably run into headwinds from a House that will likely be controlled by anti-regulation Republicans after the 2022 midterms. This does not bode well for prospects of passage.
As for the Bitcoin-friendly (but not so much crypto-friendly) and somewhat more conservative Sen. Lummis, her own admissions at the debut of her signature crypto legislation give pause. Washington Post reporter Tory Newmyer asked about the major entry of crypto into the lobbying and advocacy process in the capital, noting the $5 million the industry had invested in the former.
“How is that making a difference on the Hill?” Newmyer asked.
To which Sen. Lummis replied:
“Oh, I don't know because I had no idea that was happening …”
Wait. What?
The co-sponsor of an ambitious piece of comprehensive legislation candidly confesses that she was unaware of the industry’s engagement. By their own frank admission, the Senate co-sponsors spent a great deal more time talking to the federal regulators than to the regulated. That does not bode well for the prospects of passage.
To paraphrase French Gen. Bosquet's comment on the Charge of the Light Brigade: “C’est magnifique, mais c’est pas les politiques, c’est de la folie.”
And when asked why bitcoin (of which Sen. Lummis is a HODLer) has not seen its price act as a hedge against inflation, losing more than half its dollar value while inflation approaches double digits, Sen. Lummis responded: “Well, that's a great question. I would have expected it to decouple from the stock market. It has not done that.”
Wait. What?
The co-sponsor of an ambitious piece of comprehensive legislation candidly confesses that the market is not supporting a fundamental predicate of her proposed regulatory structure?
That does not bode well for the prospects of passage.
Economist Friedrich Hayek devoted his Nobel Prize in economics acceptance speech to an indictment of what he called “scientism,” in which the economics profession adopted the form, but not the substance, of science. Hayek: “It is often difficult enough for the expert, and certainly in many instances impossible for the layman, to distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate claims advanced in the name of science.”
Classical liberals – like those of us here at the American Blockchain PAC – enthusiastically embrace the essential role of the rule of law. It’s libertarian doctrine!
That said, we are far more optimistic about the power of organic market forces, under the rule of law, to facilitate equitable prosperity while protecting the public from force, fraud or coercion than we are about ambitious regulatory structures. Especially regulatory structures that have gone off the rails even before the train has left the legislative station.
In the words of the chairman of our advisory board, blockchain inventor Dr. W. Scott Stornetta, “Let freedom ring!”
Tipping our hat to Jimmy Stewart, we applaud the debut of “Ms. Crypto Goes to Washington,” produced and directed by Cynthia Lummis and Kristen Gillibrand. Brava!
Next let’s take to heart the words of its protagonist, Sen. Jefferson Smith:
“Get up there with the lady that’s up on top of this Capitol dome, that lady that stands for liberty.”
Lummis-Gillibrand signals the mainstreaming of crypto. It is historic.
Now, let’s just invite in Lady Freedom – “the lady that’s up on top of this Capitol dome” – to achieve blockbuster status.
Read More: Crypto Bill Condemned by Consumer Advocates in Washington"
182,227,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/29/genesis-faces-hundreds-of-millions-in-losses-as-3ac-exposure-swamps-crypto-lenders-sources/,Genesis Faces ‘Hundreds of Millions’ in Losses as 3AC Exposure Swamps Crypto Lenders: Sources,The DCG-owned trading colossus is said to have suffered nine-figure losses partly through exposure to Three Arrows Capital and Babel Finance.,2022-06-29,"Cryptocurrency market maker and lending firm Genesis Trading is facing potential losses into the “hundreds of millions,” according to three people familiar with the matter.
The losses at Genesis relate, in part, to exposure to over-leveraged hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and Hong Kong-based crypto lender Babel Finance, and are on the order of “a few hundred million dollars,” one of the people said.
The losses come as the collapse of Three Arrows Capital sends shockwaves across the crypto lending industry, with numerous firms facing substantial losses from their exposure to the fund.
The precise tally of Genesis’s losses may not be known for some time because the company is seeking at least partial repayment from its counterparties and some of the losses may have been offset by hedging, the people said. Amid such uncertainty, Genesis has been pulling credit lines from counterparties left and right, according to a fourth market source.
Genesis, which is owned by Digital Currency Group (DCG), also the owner of CoinDesk, issued the following statement from CEO Michael Moro:
Neither Babel Finance nor Three Arrows Capital responded to requests for comment.
A cascade of liquidations at many different crypto lending and trading platforms has followed the high-profile unraveling of crypto firms such as Terraform Labs (of Terra and luna infamy), Celsius and Three Arrows Capital, aided by a plunge in the value of cryptocurrencies across the board.
The impact from Three Arrows Capital in particular has been felt widely. Crypto brokerage Voyager saw its stock plunge and was forced to limit withdrawals as it declared the hedge fund in default on loans worth around $670 million. Others, including BlockFi, are believed to be facing similar challenges.
Genesis has previously acknowledged taking a hit in the bear market without giving any numbers. The firm “carefully and thoughtfully mitigated our losses with a large counterparty who failed to meet a margin call to us,” CEO Moro tweeted in mid-June.
Genesis originated over $44.3 billion in loans in the first quarter of 2022. Its parent company, DCG, a large crypto conglomerate rumored to have a war chest of about $1 billion, is likely to help Genesis “buffer that kind of shock,” one person said.
Other crypto lenders have enlisted deep-pocketed saviors in recent days, with FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried making opportunistic investments in BlockFi and Voyager.
Forced deleveraging across markets has further tanked bitcoin’s (BTC) price in recent days with the leading cryptocurrency currently trading hands around $20,000.
UPDATE (June 30, 02:14 UTC): Adds that crypto lender BlockFi is believed to be in similar straits."
183,337,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/06/29/young-web3-believers-unfazed-by-battered-crypto-market/,Young Web3 Believers Unfazed by Battered Crypto Market,Subtitle not found,2022-06-29,"Lin Chuan is on track to graduate next year with a master’s degree in computer science from Peking University. The weak global economy notwithstanding, he plans to start his career working in the next iteration of the internet, blockchain-based Web3.
The 23-year-old has interned at Baidu, China’s internet search behemoth, and at global venture firm GGV Capital. He is disappointed by the dwindling opportunities in Web2 amid China’s tech crackdown and fascinated by the growing potential in Web3. An adventurer in spirit, he doesn’t want to settle down at a traditional tech company, like most of his computer science peers do.
This piece is part of CoinDesk's Future of Work Week series.
“Finding a stable job, getting married, buying a house … these are just not my thing,” he said. “I look for flexibility, freedom and a faster career path … and this space is just like that, and with little office politics or nepotism. It is about your individual abilities – you get rewarded for what you can do.”
A new frontier in the tech industry, Web3 draws students and fresh graduates from all over the world who have technical know-how and whose skills are readily applicable to blockchain development. These young crypto believers are often fully committed to working in the sector, attracted by the idea of decentralization and their faster career advancement potential. They are unfazed by the battered job market and volatile cryptocurrency prices.
Yes, investors are thinking twice about putting money in this heated industry, with steep drops of bitcoin and ETH as well as the collapse of the terra stablecoin and its corresponding luna token, default of the Three Arrows Capital crypto hedge fund and freezing of withdrawals from Celsius Network’s lending platform.
Meanwhile, the macroeconomic climate is getting worse, with inflation at a 40-year high, soaring energy prices and global supply chain logjams. Still, the bad economic news doesn’t appear to be dampening young job seekers’ determination to jump into Web3.
Read More: What Is Web 3 and Why Is Everyone Talking About It?
In the Bay Area, Ratan Kaliani, 20, a rising senior at the University of California, Berkeley, is already working full time in a DEX (decentralized exchange) infrastructure startup. He got into crypto with peers from Blockchain at Berkeley, a student-run organization and blockchain consultancy.
The recent crypto climate doesn’t daunt this ex-Coinbase intern’s passion for crypto.
“When you are committed to something, you want to be able to explore it the fullest,” he said. When asked how he will finish his senior year while working full time, he chuckled. “I am probably going to be pretty busy.”
Saif Uddin Mahmud, 24, is a Bangladeshi with a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering from the National University of Singapore. Having worked as the technical lead in a Singapore-based health-care startup, he recently took a leap of faith and is in the planning stages of a Web3 startup he is co-founding with friends.
Kaliani and Saif share a faith in crypto, specifically admiring that it is a blockchain-powered system with decentralized authority. The emerging technology seems to speak to young adults looking for a mission – a radical response to the current Web2 system that has been criticized for exploiting the free labor of users that is then monetized to enrich the corporation.
The recent crypto crash is seen as part of a normal cycle of bull and bear markets. In fact, some, such as Saif, believe that the crash will filter out opportunist traders who want to make quick money: “The noise will quiet down a bit, which means that there will be more people who are genuinely interested in the technology,” he said.
Even amid the uncertainty, young crypto enthusiasts of all disciplines are seeking jobs, not just software engineers. Finance, business and even law students are also taking an interest in crypto.
Read More: Visa Looking to Hire College Students to Develop In-House Crypto Talent
Lai Yuen is a 25-year-old Singaporean who just finished his undergraduate study in finance at the National University of Singapore. He initially aspired to be a portfolio manager, but grew disillusioned by the rigid metrics of success in finance and wanted to carve out a path of his own.
That path means starting an NFT (non-fungible token) company while working as an investment analyst for the digital-asset management arm of a foundation that supports open-source crypto projects. He took an 18-hour flight from Singapore to New York this month to attend the NFT.NYC conference, seeking to build connections in the industry.
A Chinese student who will graduate with a master’s in accounting from National University of Singapore this August, Sabrina Li is interning at crypto exchange Bybit. She still sees crypto as an attractive career opportunity. Hoping to convert to a full-time employee at Bybit, the 24-year-old is doing all she can to learn about crypto.
“If I can enter the market and take root, then I will be growing much faster in my career than in a financial firm, where things are very much institutionalized,” she said.
Of course, not all twentysomethings are ready to jump into an uncertain market in an emerging technology.
Benjamin Peck is another Singaporean who is about to start the penultimate year of his double-degree program in law and liberal arts at Yale-NUS College in Singapore. His first foray into crypto-related work is his current internship at a Singapore-based startup that is creating a payment infrastructure for crypto trading. While inspired by what cryptocurrencies promise, the future lawyer is cautious about seeking a career there.
“Not a lot of crypto companies have proven themselves to be profitable, resilient and able to generate impact,” he said. Peck added that his career interest in the crypto industry would hinge on where there are sustainable businesses.
In the Bay Area, a student pursuing a master’s program in software management at Carnegie Mellon University Silicon Valley expresses his concern about embarking on a crypto career. The student, who wishes to be anonymous, had been involved in crypto since the age of 14. In Eastern Europe, where he lived, he would import crypto mining machines from China and with his father mine bitcoins and ETH. This interest continued into his freshman year in college, when he would miss lectures to try to buy more mining rigs. In his current school, he has been doing a few research projects working with NFTs.
Despite his early exposure and consistent interest, he doesn’t want to get a job in crypto, citing job security as the main concern. In around half a year, he will finish his master’s degree, after which he hopes to continue working in the U.S. The last thing he wants is to have his job offer rescinded just before he graduates.
Read More: Crypto Jobs: Who’s Cutting and Hiring?
“There is a future in crypto but you have to leverage it correctly,” he said.
Singaporean Tan Jian Zhen is even less enthusiastic. The 21-year-old is highly skeptical of the crypto industry. A holder of a diploma in information technology from Ngee Ann Polytechnic, a post-secondary institution in Singapore, the startup enthusiast has been trying to start a crypto company of his own for the past five years.
“I think some specific use cases are interesting, but this is not a sustainable field,” Tan said. A major part of his skepticism comes from crypto's unregulated nature. “Society needs regulation. If not, chaos ensues.
“I will remain in the tech startup space, but it doesn’t have to be crypto,” he added, “Cryptocurrencies feel like they can change the world, but they are not.”
But many others would disagree. The decentralized and anti-censorship nature of crypto and blockchain-based organizations is enough to make it a potent force, said Lin, the Chinese computer scientist, as it is “difficult to be with big government and corporations.”
In fact, it is powerful enough to keep the Chinese government on its toes. Lin expects more regulatory oversight in his home country. A native of Hangzhou, the birthplace of Alibaba and some of the biggest Web2 firms, he looks abroad for a place more supportive of this novel technology. He leaves that choice open, but remains dedicated to Web3 and building what he is passionate about.
Meet the pioneers who work at decentralized autonomous organizations.
It may be a bear market, but there are still plenty of jobs to be had at crypto companies.
CoinDesk asked a variety of crypto professionals how they got their foot in the door in the industry."
184,121,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/06/29/nansen-casts-blame-for-steth-de-peg-on-terra/,Nansen Report Shows Links Between Terra Collapse and stETH 'De-peg',"The report also explores how Celsius, Three Arrows Capital, and other firms were impacted by stETH's deviation from ETH.",2022-06-29,"A report released Wednesday by blockchain research firm Nansen draws a straight line from Terra to the sinking price of lido staked ether (stETH). The report also zooms in on Three Arrows Capital (3AC) and Celsius for their dual roles as both catalysts and casualties for the broader crypto market decline.
As crypto markets tumble and firms like Three Arrows Capital and Celsius appear on the brink of insolvency, all eyes have shifted to stETH, a derivative token of ether (ETH). Until recently, both had traded at around the same price.
Widely publicized stETH sales by 3AC, Celsius and others, however, played a role in pushing stETH’s price sizably below that of ETH. At press time, stETH traded at a 4% discount to ETH, according to CoinMarketCap.
In its report, Nansen contends that the seeds of stETH’s decline were planted long before the wider crypto market crash in early June. Nansen’s analysis shows how the stETH “de-peg” can be traced back to the implosion of the Terra stablecoin ecosystem at the start of May.
In pinning stETH’s collapse on Terra, the report painted the ill-fated stablecoin project – whose UST and Luna token crashes wiped out $40 billion back in May – as ""patient zero"" for a crypto contagion that continues to wreak havoc across sector balance sheets.
Lido staked ether, which represents ether “staked” on Ethereum’s proof-of-stake Beacon Chain, has become a key tool underlying the budding decentralized financial ecosystem (DeFi). It enables users to earn rewards for helping to secure Ethereum’s Beacon Chain – which will soon merge with the network’s main network – without losing the ability to trade ether (ETH).
“Although the talks about stETH 'de-pegging' have been most present recently, the groundwork for the current situation was laid around one month earlier – during the UST collapse,” said Nansen.
When Terra’s UST stablecoin was still priced at $1, a popular investment strategy involved moving stETH over to Terra’s blockchain using Wormhole, a popular “bridge” for moving assets between chains. Once the stETH was on Terra, it was represented by a derivative token called bETH, which could be deposited into a lending platform called Anchor in order to borrow UST.
This stETH-to-UST transmutation strategy was working well enough until UST’s price started to falter. As investor confidence in Terra dipped, Anchor users rushed to claw their bETH out of the platform. From there, they bridged the Terra-based bETH back to Ethereum and converted it back to stETH.
As Nansen explained in its report: “From May 7, Wormhole's bETH holdings fell from a peak of 667k to 32k within four days - a 95% drawdown. Similarly, Anchor's vault also experienced an abrupt fall of over 96% from its high of 665k stETH to 26k stETH. This reduction is analogous to flows from Terra to Ethereum, as investors were immediately unwrapping their bETH for stETH after bridging back.”
From here, Nansen says many users opted to sell their stETH back for ETH, which had the effect of depressing stETH’s price. Most stETH sellers, according to Nansen, dropped their tokens onto Curve – a stablecoin-focused decentralized exchange (DEX). “The net stETH buy/sell during this period reveals that a net cumulative of over 169k stETH were sold on DEXs (primarily on Curve),” Nansen recounted.
The massive inflows of stETH and outflows of ETH from Curve ended up crashing stETH’s price on its largest money market.
Nansen pointed to Celsius and Three Arrows Capital as the two firms likely to have had the largest impact on decreasing stETH’s price in the days following Terra’s collapse. Their main effect came from decreasing the number of tokens in Curve liquidity pools – buckets of currencies that decentralized exchanges use to facilitate swaps between tokens.
Nansen: “On May 12, Three Arrows Capital removed $400m of liquidity (128k stETH + 73k ETH) from the stETH/ETH Curve pool in a single transaction. Meanwhile, Celsius took out $380m of liquidity on the same day in three separate transactions.”
Shrinking liquidity pools can contribute to something called “slippage,” which can make large DEX trades prohibitively expensive. With Curve as the primary market for stETH, Nansen said 3AC’s and Celsius’ withdrawals made it difficult for others to exit their positions due to slippage and skewed stETH’s price.
“Other participants were also observed withdrawing liquidity, but these two entities were most consequential to the pool's health,” the report said.
While they may have contributed to stETH’s price dip, Nansen’s said Celsius and Three Arrows also suffered immensely as a result of stETH’s persistent price discount – especially as the broader crypto market collapsed at the start of June.
Celsius, a crypto lender that was at one point a major investor in Terra, has paused customer withdrawals and, according to the The Wall Street Journal, is now facing potential bankruptcy due to a series of failed DeFi bets.
“Given the poor market backdrop post-Terra’s collapse, both pool imbalance and liquidity on Curve for stETH failed to recover; the drying up of liquidity meant that there was no other avenue for significant stETH holders such as Celsius to cover their positions, culminating in the widely publicized events that occurred on June 11-13,” Nansen said.
Three Arrows Capital also invested in Terra and was once a darling in DeFi investor circles. It became a pariah this month after failing to pay back creditors – apparently due to questionable risk management practices. On Wednesday, CoinDesk reported that a British Virgin Islands court is forcing the firm into liquidation.
According to Nansen, “3AC’s lack of sound risk management coupled with excessive leverage was simply a ticking time bomb that was set off by the stETH ‘de-peg.’”
Celsius and 3AC are just the latest (and most prominent) casualties in the recent crypto decline. Should stETH’s price continue to fall, one should expect to see far more knock-on effects.
In its report, Nansen said that a number of traders have engaged in high-leverage strategies built atop the assumption that ETH and stETH will trade 1:1.
One popular strategy involves borrowing ETH against stETH on the DeFi lending platform Aave, staking that ETH in exchange for more stETH, and then depositing that new stETH into Aave, and then continually repeating the process. This popular strategy increases the rewards one can receive for staking ether, but it also increases one’s exposure to stETH in the event of a price decline.
As Nansen explains, “The tradeoff is the build-up of leveraged positions which can be liquidated if stETH trades at a significant discount against ETH, putting the stETH at risk of a potential liquidation cascade when there is enough selling pressure. Once the selling pressure starts to mount, more users will have to sell their stETH to cover their positions, further exacerbating the sell pressure.”"
185,170,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/01/from-one-to-zero-blockfis-fire-sale-shows-the-uber-startup-model-is-disastrous-for-finance/,From One to Zero: BlockFi’s Fire Sale Shows the Uber Startup Model Is Disastrous for Finance,Peter Thiel’s monopolistic theories about building companies have clearly hit their limit: banking.,2022-07-01,"Crypto-lender (read: unlicensed bank) BlockFi has announced a deal with Sam Bankman-Freid's FTX that could lead to a sale at a price of $240m or less. That would be a serious drawdown from the $1.3 billion in capital poured into the company since 2019, but far better than rumors and reports suggesting much lower bids.
BlockFi’s fate, while not great, still looks better than that of other centralized crypto lenders, including Celsius and Babel Finance, which also garnered hundreds of millions from investors. BlockFi depositors at least seem likely to get a lot of their money back, while Celsius and others seem truly insolvent. Though it’s not obvious, this group also includes Anchor, which masqueraded as a decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol on the Terra blockchain but was in reality clearly managed by a close group of backers, and has already wiped out depositors.
So where did all that investor money go?
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Investments in crypto lenders went into at least two gigantic holes in the ground.
On the one hand, these lenders all seem to have engaged in some degree of reckless investing in pursuit of the high yields they promised depositors. That led them to take big swings on garbage like LUNA, Terra’s native asset, and BadgerDAO, an Ethereum-based protocol to lend bitcoin (BTC).
Some also bet on stETH, a derivative of ETH that pays staking rewards, and the Grayscale BTC Trust, a massive institutional vehicle for BTC exposure (operated by CoinDesk’s sister company). Those are reputable assets, but they're currently illiquid and wound up leaving temporary but large holes in lenders’ balance sheets. (One reason BlockFi has survived is that, according to CEO and founder Zach Prince, it avoided most of these traps.)
But another tranche of investors’ capital went not to risky bets, but directly towards funding yields that were being paid to depositors. This was explained by investors themselves as a deficit-spending customer acquisition strategy that would, in the future, translate into real revenue.
See also: Dragonfly’s Haseeb Qureshi Is Still Optimistic in the Crypto Bear Market | The Node
That’s a page ripped directly from the Silicon Valley playbook that gave rise to Amazon (AMZN) and Facebook, now Meta (FB). It was articulated as a philosophy by Peter Thiel in his book “Zero to One,” which broadly argues that startups should spend enough on early-stage growth to strangle the competition, essentially creating their own monopolies.
The success of Amazon and Facebook in particular turned the monopolistic playbook into Silicon Valley gospel. But after a first wave of genuine successes it began to falter, spawning eternally unprofitable zombie companies like Uber and more than a few absolute money-burning catastrophes like WeWork. For a time these amounted to a “millennial lifestyle subsidy” as consumers enjoyed rides or rentals at prices below their actual cost and VCs covered the difference out of (misguided) faith that it would all work out in the end.
But the infection of finance by the deficit-customer-acquisition mind virus may be its most dangerous and misguided iteration. It is a fundamentally nonsensical, and arguably fundamentally fraudulent, approach to growing a banking or lending business. The blowups we’re seeing now are far less a condemnation of crypto than of this outdated and misapplied Thiel growth playbook.
How do we know investor funds were subsidizing depositor yields on Celsius and other platforms? In part, it’s simple math: Demand for deposit yield entirely outstripped demand for expensive institutional crypto loans, so the lenders in aggregate could not have actually been generating all the yield they were paying out to depositors from their loan books.
Further, while we don’t have direct visibility into Celsius or BlockFi’s spending, we do know the flows of the most elaborately obfuscated of the fake crypto banks: Anchor.
Some will immediately object that Anchor doesn’t belong in this category. But while it nominally ran on a public blockchain, it was in no sense a “real” DeFi protocol. This was obvious well before Terra’s collapse. While DeFi protocols like Aave adjust deposit returns based on real loan demand, entities in the Terra ecosystem had to repeatedly refill the “yield reserve” that was paying out artificially high depositor yields on Anchor. A backstop was necessary because Anchor wasn’t endogenously generating enough yield from loans to meet its obligations to depositors.
This was explicitly acknowledged to be a temporary fix, with the promise that “real” yields would eventually arrive – much as Uber has continued to promise real profits someday. Though not framed in these terms, it was the functional equivalent of Uber selling rides for less than they actually cost and making up the difference with investor money.
LUNA and the UST stablecoin grew so large almost entirely because of the ~20% interest being paid on deposits made to Anchor using the UST stablecoin. These subsidized returns meant Terra was, in practice, a technologically obfuscated Ponzi scheme.
Whatever the legal niceties, the same argument could be made about the functional reality of Celsius and its ilk. These cases may even highlight certain “Ponzinomic” elements of venture investing as a whole, particularly the ability of early-stage investors to continue propping up the book value of their own positions in subsequent rounds. As with Anchor, as long as a VC can continue subsidizing money-losing customer acquisition, a company can trumpet growth and promise profitability down the road.
But even on its face this is simply a disastrous model for finance because unlike technology revenues and profits, investment yields don’t scale. In fact, they do the opposite of scale: The larger a hedge fund gets, for instance, the harder it is to continue delivering the same percentage returns it did with less money under management.
See also: The Case for Suing Celsius, Terraform Labs | The Node
Whether you’re investing in crypto or tech stocks, this often becomes a kind of risk trap. When people keep throwing cash at you, you have to search harder and harder for investment opportunities that will match your past performance. Those later bets, almost inevitably, either provide lower returns or present higher risks. This was the precise dynamic that played out with Celsius in particular: BadgerDAO is to Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky as Twist Bioscience (a speculative medical bet) is to ARK Invest’s Cathie Wood.
Another reason the Thiel model simply makes no sense for retail finance is that it is structurally impossible to build the kind of “moat” that can, at the very least, keep a crappy business like Uber limping along. A huge element of finance, certainly for retail depositors but also more generally, is that you want your deposits to be as liquid as possible. To attract deposits in the first place, customers must be convinced it will be easy to withdraw … and potentially deposit their money elsewhere. This makes banking a fundamentally very, very tough business to monopolize in even a marginally free market.
Finally, loss-led customer acquisition is nonsensical in finance simply because there’s no such thing as free money. Yields that are artificially inflated to attract customers will inevitably be forced to align with macro trends over time, and the customers will simply leave. One part of what made Celsius and Anchor functionally scams (whatever the legal conclusions wind up being) is that their outsized returns were premised on the idea that crypto somehow magically generated more yield than normal money, and would indefinitely.
That was always absurd – the past few weeks have just made it painfully obvious.
Update 7/1/22: This story has been updated with new information about FTX's deal with BlockFi."
186,95,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/11/terra-projects-begin-moving-to-polygon-months-after-ust-debacle/,Terra Projects Begin Moving to Polygon 2 Months After UST Debacle,Over $20 million had been earmarked to help projects that are migrating.,2022-07-11,"More than 48 projects previously on the Terra network have begun migrating to Polygon almost two months after the Terra network collapsed following the implosion of terraUSD (UST).
“Terra projects have begun migration,” Polygon Studios CEO Ryan Wyatt said in a tweet early Monday. “Over 48 projects and counting… including OnePlanet_NFT, an exclusive 0xPolygon marketplace and DerbyStars_HQ.”
In May, Polygon Studios announced a multimillion-dollar fund to assist Terra projects looking to switch. It was ready to pay as much as $20 million to help Terra teams migrate to Polygon's own blockchain to continue building products.
“For any project which wants to come from Terra to Polygon, we will be happy to provide them both financial assistance as well as technical assistance,” a spokesperson for Polygon told CoinDesk at the time. “We’ll provide them developers and everything.”
Developers behind other blockchain networks also courted Terra projects, among them Kadena, Cosmos and Avalanche, as previously reported.
UST, the Terra network’s algorithmic stablecoin that was designed to maintain its value by minting or burning exactly $1 worth of luna for 1 UST, fell to under 10 cents in May after losing its peg following investor outflows.
Excessive minting of luna to try to bring UST back to its peg caused prices of the governance token to fall by as much as 99.7%, while Terra-based decentralized finance (DeFi) applications saw over $28 billion in outflows."
187,338,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/12/behind-voyagers-fall-crypto-broker-acted-like-a-bank-went-bankrupt/,"Behind Voyager’s Fall: Crypto Broker Acted Like a Bank, Went Bankrupt","In an industry where counterparties are tightly bound together by a weave of debt and leverage, dominoes can fall fast and hard.",2022-07-12,"At its height, Voyager Digital boasted 3.5 million users (roughly what Coinbase boasted in 2015) and $5.9 billion in assets, comparable to a small regional bank or respectable wealth management firm.
Ninety-seven percent of Voyager’s clients stored less than $10,000 on the platform, indicating a broad base of individual investors. It was a crypto lending and trading powerhouse – one of the few digital asset brokerages listed on stock markets anywhere in the world (albeit in Canada rather than the U.S., its home country).
Voyager’s future, until recently, looked bright. Leadership seemed barely able to conceive of a bear market, much less its consequences. Speaking in 2021, CEO Steve Ehrlich said that “I think the market looks completely different today from what it looked like in 2017. We all remember 2017.”
As it turns out, 2021 was actually a lot like 2017 – both were quickly followed by a brutal crypto market crash. Ehrlich’s sunny optimism has yielded a rotten harvest.
The Jersey City, N.J.-based company is now known to have made immense unsecured loans to Three Arrows Capital (3AC). That failed hedge fund now appears to have defaulted on all of its obligations, and its founders are reportedly fugitives.
That alone was apparently a mortal wound. On July 1, Voyager froze customer funds. Just days later, it filed for bankruptcy protection in New York.
Voyager is in a bleak situation. “The Debtors are facing a short-term ‘run on the bank,’” according to a statement Ehrlich filed alongside bankruptcy papers. But, also according to Ehrlich (who did not respond to a request for comment for this story), Voyager has a brighter future: “Debtors have a viable business and a plan for the future.” (Under Chapter 11, the company is seeking to reorganize rather than liquidate.)
So how did a once mighty and well-regarded crypto lending outfit get here?
Short version: Voyager was pretty good at attracting deposits. When it came to lending that money out … not so much.
In the company’s chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, Ehrlich gave a rare public play-by-play of a crypto lender’s mistakes. It’s a story that, at least by Ehrlich’s telling, begins with the collapse of the Terra blockchain ecosystem and the ensuing contagion.
In an industry where counterparties are tightly bound together by a weave of debt and leverage, dominoes can fall fast and hard. Voyager is casting itself as a victim of the cryptopocalypse, undone not by any direct exposure to the likes of Terra’s UST stablecoin and LUNA token, but merely through unlucky business partners.
Voyager said it quickly moved to hedge its risk as crypto winter began in early 2022, in part by reducing loans and mitigating counterparty risk. All the better to protect against Terra’s spectacular May collapse. This effort was successful “in most instances.”
Until it wasn’t.
Things turned sour in June. Three Arrows Capital, a widely respected Singapore-based hedge fund with loans across the industry and bets across the space, “was in jeopardy” of failing to pay up. Its own “massive” bets on LUNA had imploded into a black hole of losses.
Three Arrows was also underwater on positions in Lido staked ether (stETH) and the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust. (Grayscale is owned by Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.) Notably, Ehrlich does not mention either of these in his bankruptcy narrative, possibly reflecting a troubling lack of insight into the operations of a company to which he offered a $650 million unsecured loan.
Either way, Three Arrows was down bad across the board. It was also one of Voyager’s single largest lending customers.
To understand Voyager’s collapse, you first have to understand what its business actually was.
To depositors, it looked an awful lot like a bank with a few twists. Up front, users deposited cryptocurrency rather than government fiat. Around the back, while Citibank or the teachers’ credit union might generate revenue by turning deposits into home loans, Voyager was engaged in (it turns out) much riskier lending.
Voyager is one of several retail-facing crypto institutions that generate interest on deposits by loaning crypto assets out to traders and institutions. Investment firms and hedge funds like Three Arrows Capital rely on these loans to make big trades. They take in capital from lenders, long or short a cornucopia of (risky) assets, invest in early-stage companies – and if all goes well, earn massive returns relatively quickly.
Some of these returns funnel back to their lending partners as interest payments. In turn, those partners, lenders like Voyager, pass a slice of the interest to customers. The process creating that chain of events that led to these yield payments is almost irrelevant – and certainly not transparent – to depositors. All they see is a nice payout in their accounts.
Until, that is, something goes wrong.
When asset prices tumble or a counterparty defaults on a massive loan, the lenders are left with gaping holes in their balance sheets. The systemic downturn has blown up not just Voyager but also Celsius and Babel Finance, all of which have frozen withdrawals and most of which now appear insolvent.
That has had real ramifications for real people, many of whom came to Voyager and its ilk with modest savings, in search of higher yield. What they may be realizing too late is that these crypto lenders are not the same as banks, and it’s unclear exactly how or if their deposits will be recovered. Voyager, for its part, is now under regulatory scrutiny for allegedly misrepresenting insurance on customer deposits.
Among crypto lenders, Voyager is also notable because it's the first to take the bankruptcy route. As part of that process, Ehrlich has filed a lengthy statement detailing the company’s challenges. It provides an unvarnished glimpse into the same shaky foundations of all the crypto lenders.
One of those details is the rates paid by borrowers. According to Ehrlich’s statement, Alameda Research would pay up to 11.5%, Three Arrows Capital 10% and Genesis 13.5%. (Genesis is owned by Digital Currency Group, which also owns CoinDesk.) Three Arrows was by far the biggest counterparty, with over $650 million borrowed. This “integral part of the business” is how the cash cow mooed.
Note also 3AC’s low interest rate relative to other borrowers. That would seem to reflect above-average faith in the fund, and multiple lenders did make generous loans to Three Arrows co-founders Kyle Davies and Su Zhu on friendly terms. Voyager stands out, though, for extending such a huge loan without requiring collateral from Three Arrows. That gesture of trust, as we’ve since learned, was woefully misplaced.
But the lending business rallied like no other during the pandemic, when speculative mania from retail traders pushed everything from GameStop stock to dogecoin into silly season. From early 2020 to early 2022, the Voyager platform ballooned from 120,000 to 3.5 million users. Voyager benefited from low U.S. dollar interest rates and skyrocketing enthusiasm for the world’s hippest, hottest, most boom-and-bust prone risk-on asset.
But as bubbles do, crypto-mania hit its limit in late 2021, and assets started hemorrhaging value. The war in Ukraine, rising inflation and rate hikes from the U.S. Federal Reserve further shook crypto’s up-only drumbeat. Between November of 2021 and April of 2022, crypto asset prices slumped by roughly 33% across the board.
Then the wild card reared up. Starting in early May, the UST stablecoin began a “death spiral” that wiped billions of dollars in wealth from the global crypto economy. Within days, a blockchain that Ehrlich claims was “widely viewed as a project with significant promise” and had major backing from investors of all stripes, had gone all but kaput.
Meanwhile, two less dramatic but similarly threatening sinkholes were opening. Starting in early 2021, the Greyscale Bitcoin Trust began trading at a significant discount to the underlying bitcoins. And stETH, effectively a promissory note for ETH on the upcoming Ethereum 2.0 system, began trading at a discount to ETH. Both of these developments meant investors had to take big losses if they wanted to turn positions in those assets into ready cash.
One big holder of both GBTC and stETH was, you guessed it, Three Arrows Capital. 3AC’s loss of its entire $200 million initial stake in LUNA might not have been fatal if it hadn’t already been underwater on those other positions. But in any event, Three Arrows, for years one of the most respected trading firms in crypto, did the unthinkable: It simply disappeared.
Voyager had previously loaned $350 million in the stablecoin USDC and 15,250 bitcoins to Three Arrows. As the market continued to slide, Voyager made multiple demands for repayment in late June. But Three Arrows did not respond and was also ghosting other partners. $650 million of Voyager funds, effectively including a lot of customer deposits, was simply gone.
The dominoes were falling. Terra’s downfall led to Three Arrows’ default led to Voyager’s reckoning.
This wasn’t some normal crypto winter.
Contagion season had arrived.
To stop the bleeding, Voyager in mid-June brokered a nearly $500 million loan facility with Alameda intended to support the company’s short-term finances. It was at best a Band-Aid, a “partial solution” to contagion-fueled liquidity issues exacerbated by the greater crypto market rout.
Making matters worse, Celsius, another crypto lending giant, was falling apart at the same time. Celsius froze customer withdrawals on June 12, shaking broader confidence in lenders and the markets and prompting Voyager’s own clients to run for safety. Lowering daily withdrawal limits from $25,000 to $10,000 per day on June 23 was meant to stop the race to the exit and buy Voyager time.
But it wasn’t enough in the face of what Ehrlich describes as “an influx of customer withdrawals” that threatened “the Company’s ability to serve customers who remained on its platform.” As the market continued to fall, Voyager’s situation grew ever bleaker. On July 1, it froze all customer withdrawals and trading to “avoid irreparable damage to the Debtors’ business and ensure that its trading platform operated smoothly for all customers.” (Not being able to withdraw, it must be noted, seems in itself like less than smooth operation.)
Voyager went into what might be described as panic mode. By mid-June, it retained legal counsel; a consultancy joined the fray by month’s close. The Canada-listed public company needed “potential strategic solutions” to its looming liquidity crisis – and it needed them fast. That could include selling businesses or raising capital.
Some temporary breathing room came in the form of a June 20 unsecured loan facility worth roughly $500 million from trading powerhouse Alameda Research. Alameda founder Sam Bankman-Fried (also the CEO of the FTX exchange) has become crypto’s backstopper-in-chief during the market rout. Voyager initially borrowed $75 million, to be (theoretically) paid back by late 2024.
Meanwhile, the investment bankers reached out to “60 potential financial and strategic partners” – that is, potential saviors – according to Ehrlich. They got 22 leads toward a rescue deal, but only one proposal emerged. The offer was too much of a lowball for Voyager to stomach. No other options appeared.
“It became clear that a potential strategic transaction would only emerge after the Company petitioned for chapter 11 relief,” Ehrlich states.
Voyager tells the court it plans to mount a comeback. A Chapter 11 restructuring would allow Voyager to shed debt and restructure itself, rather than having to liquidate its assets. “Voyager will move as swiftly as possible through these cases to maximize the value of its business and allow customers to fully use the Company’s platform,” Ehrlich writes. A “robust marketing process” is already underway to signal Voyager cannot be counted out.
That marketing effort will need to be very robust indeed, since both broader conditions and some of Voyager’s own actions have profoundly undermined whatever public trust it enjoyed. A restructuring plan announced Monday would compensate users for missing crypto with shares of Voyager equity and Voyager tokens (whatever those are).
That’s unlikely to leave users particularly happy, though it might give them a backdoor incentive to continue using the crippled service.
UPDATE (July 12, 23:01 UTC): Removes BlockFi from list of platforms that have paused withdrawals. Madelyn McHugh, a spokesperson for the lender, said it has not done so."
188,27,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/14/voyager-digitals-token-surges-over-250-on-short-squeeze/,Voyager Digital's Token Surges Over 250% on 'Short Squeeze',A short squeeze refers to a sharp rally fueled by the unwinding of bearish positions or several sellers rushing to take profits.,2022-07-14,"Bankrupt cryptocurrency lending platform Voyager Digital's native coin voyager (VGX) has more than tripled in three days. According to one observer, the move appears to be driven by a short squeeze.
Since Tuesday, VGX has increased by 257% from $0.14 to $0.50 with prices hitting a high of $1.01 in the past 24 hours, CoinDesk data shows.
""Pumping coins of insolvent businesses seem to be becoming a meta,"" CK Cheung, investment analyst at Defiance Capital, said. ""Similar pumps happened to Terra's LUNC token and Celsius' CEL token, mostly because of a short squeeze.""
A short squeeze refers to a sharp rally fueled by the unwinding of bearish positions or sellers rushing to take profits. Assets like VGX, that are in a prolonged downtrend marked by extremely bearish investor sentiment, are typically prone to a short squeezes. When an asset is heavily shorted, a minor price bump often has several sellers throw in the towel and square off their sell trades. This, in turn, puts upward pressure on prices, leading to an exaggerated move. The catalyst for an initial move higher can be fundamental news or a prominent trader taking profit on the short position.
VGX hit a record low of $0.14 early this week, registering a 97% decline from the November peak of $5.81. Broader market downturn and concerns about the solvency of crypto companies, particularly lenders, roiled the VGX token in the year's first half. The market fears came true earlier this month, with the Toronto-based lender filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on July 6, citing the default of the now-insolvent hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC).
On the same day Voyager Digital, whose 60% of the loan book was reportedly composed of loans to 3AC, proposed a restructuring plan, perhaps providing a trigger for the short squeeze.
According to the plan, customers will receive a pro-rata share of four different assets – funds recovered from 3AC, existing VGX tokens, shares in the reorganized firm and other cryptocurrencies.
On Monday, Voyager's CEO Steve Ehrlich clarified that the proposed reorganization is subject to change and the exact amount that the customers will receive would “depend on what happens in the restructuring process and the recovery of 3AC assets.” According to CNBC, a federal judge in the New York bankruptcy court has frozen 3AC's assets.
Further, a VGX pump scheme announced on Twitter by an unknown firm called MetaForm Labs may have powered the rally in the battered cryptocurrency.
Under the ""PumpVGXJuly18"" plan, MetaForm Labs is targeting a price level of $5, which amounts to an eight-fold rally from the current price of $0.6. That's an ambitious goal considering Voyager's problems. Besides, crypto pump schemes have a bad reputation for being exit strategies for whales and scammers and trapping retail investors on the wrong side of the market."
189,306,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/19/three-arrows-owes-polkadot-developer-moonbeam-foundation-over-27m-court-documents-show/,"Three Arrows Owes Polkadot Developer Moonbeam Foundation Over $27M, Court Documents Show","The hedge fund was also engaged as a “consultant"" for Moonbeam-based glimmer and Moonriver-based river tokens.",2022-07-19,"Recent court documents show that beleaguered crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital owes blockchain development lab Moonbeam Foundation over $17 million worth of stablecoins and $10 million worth of Moonbeam-issued tokens.
“We are reiterating our demand for the immediate repayment of our two outstanding loan principals [$7 million in USDC and $10 million in USDT, both stablecoins],” Moonbeam Director Aaron Evansa wrote to Three Arrows in June.
The agreement was made between Moonbeam Foundation and Three Arrows on Sept. 20, 2021. Three Arrows, also known as 3AC, borrowed the open term loan at a 12% interest rate.
Separately, 3AC was additionally engaged by Moonbeam as a “liquidity consultant” for the network’s moonriver (MOVR) and glimmer (GLMR) tokens. Moonbeam is a smart contract network based on Polkadot that allows for interoperability between the Polkadot and Ethereum networks.
Three Arrows held over 10 million GLMR tokens and 200,000 MOVR tokens. These have not been returned to Moonbeam as of July 15. These are valued at nearly $10 million at current market rates.
Under the terms of the liquidity consultancy, 3AC was tasked by Moonbeam to make ""commercially reasonable efforts to open up new markets"" for the two tokens, with the hedge fund also conducting ""market analysis"" and suggesting new ""suitable exchanges"" for the tokens to trade on.
However, Three Arrows was not liable to “the ultimate performance” and had no specific trading volume targets. The obligations were “limited to making commercially reasonable efforts to advise on methods to increase liquidity” for river and glimmer tokens.
Meanwhile, the documents show that Moonbeam paid Three Arrows a sum of $90,000 as a six-month fee in installments for the consultancy services.
3AC has been an active investor in the digital asset industry in recent years, with investments across non-fungible tokens, decentralized finance, layer 1 blockchain firms and crypto companies.
The hedge fund, however, suffered massive losses following the Terra system’s implosion of its LUNA currency in mid-May and a market-wide decline in June, leading to its insolvency. Lawyers involved in the liquidation proceedings of Three Arrows Capital in the British Virgin Islands have stated Su Zhu and Kyle Davies, the hedge fund’s founders, have not been cooperating in the proceedings so far and their current location is unknown."
190,212,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/07/19/celsius-lays-out-mining-focused-reorganization-plan-at-first-bankruptcy-hearing/,Celsius Lays Out Mining-Focused Reorganization Plan at First Bankruptcy Hearing,The first day hearing revealed Celsius is betting big on its also-indebted mining operation to help fill the $1.2 billion hole in the company’s balance sheet.,2022-07-19,"Crypto lender Celsius has half a million creditors owed more than $5 billion, attorneys for the company said during its first bankruptcy hearing Monday.
News of Celsius’ liquidity crisis broke on June 12, when the company announced it was pausing all customer withdrawals, citing “extreme market conditions.” The company formally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the Bankruptcy Court of the Southern District of New York (SDNY) last week.
The situation at Celsius is not unique: The lender is one of several that have been hit hard by the Terra/LUNA crash, the insolvency of Three Arrows Capital and the ongoing market downturn.
Struggling crypto lender BlockFi received a $250 million bailout from crypto exchange FTX in order to fulfill customer withdrawal requests – and could be acquired by FTX for as little as $240 million more. Less than three weeks after Celsius halted its withdrawals, Voyager Digital followed suit, before it also filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in SDNY on July 6.
Court filings paint a concerning picture for Celsius’ creditors, most of whom are average retail investors. The company has an enormous $1.2 billion hole in its balance sheet (at least) – and retail depositors who held their crypto in Celsius accounts will likely be the last to get paid.
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, also called a “reorganization bankruptcy,” pauses any attempts at civil litigation from creditors, and allows the company time to get its finances in order to repay its debts.
Documents filed to the Southern District by the company’s law firm Kirkland & Ellis show that Celsius is deeply insolvent.
Read more: Looking at the Claims Celsius Operated Like a Ponzi
Leading up to declaring bankruptcy, Celsius saw its digital asset holdings dwindle to a mere $1.7 billion as of July 14, down from $14.6 billion since the end of March. The documents also show that Celsius owes $4.7 billion to its customers, almost three times what it holds in digital assets.
Celsius also holds $170 million in cash held in a bank, but the rest of the assets are tied up in mining equipment ($720 million), outstanding loans ($620 million) and other assets ($450 million). The documents also somehow account for $600 million in the platform’s CEL token, a much higher value than the total market capitalization of the coin. (The CEL token faces regulatory scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission.)
The firms claimed that most of the drop was due to the collapse in crypto prices, shrinking its assets by $12.3 billion.
The rest of the losses added up as:
Users withdrew $1.9 billion from deposits up until June 12, the date when the company suspended withdrawals.
Loan redemptions and liquidations reduced the firm's assets by another $1.9 billion.
Tether, the issuer of the largest stablecoin, USDT, in the market and also an investor in Celsius, set back the firm by an additional $900 million when it liquidated a loan to Celsius. (Tether issued a statement about the liquidation.)
And the firm also lost $100 million from investments.
Another document filed for the court listed the crypto lender's “unanticipated losses to the business.""
Namely, the Ethereum staking platform StakeHound lost access to 35,000 ETH ($50 million at current prices) that Celsius deposited on the platform to earn a yield “due to an alleged error by StakeHound’s third-party crypto custody provider Fireblocks.”
StakeHound and Fireblocks are currently involved in litigation over the matter.
A private lender, reportedly the Indianapolis-based lending platform EquitiesFirst, failed to return the collateral of a loan Celsius paid off and owes $439 million to Celsius.
Celsius admitted it also lost about $15.8 million in Terra’s collapse, but the “widespread and completely misleading Twitter and social media commentary,” as the company’s legal advisor said during today’s hearing, prompted a run on its deposits in the first place.
Monday’s hearing – as well as a host of court documents, including a 61-page declaration from CEO Alex Mashinsky – indicate that much of Celsius’ plan to recoup its losses depends heavily on the projected future profits of its half-finished, wholly owned mining subsidiary, Celsius Mining.
However, that mining subsidiary is also a debtor. Lawyers for Celsius asked the court on Monday to approve over $5 million in spending to finish the construction of the mining center in Texas (which Celsius’ attorneys said would take approximately two more months), as well as pay duties on mining rigs “currently sitting with the customs authorities.”
Though Judge Martin Glenn, chief judge of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York, approved the request on an interim basis, the U.S. Trustee – the arm of the Department of Justice that oversees administration of bankruptcy cases– will ultimately hold the purse strings.
At Monday’s hearing, Shara Cornell, an attorney with the U.S. Trustee Program, voiced her concerns about the viability of Celsius’ mining operation.
“There’s one mining company that I don’t believe is currently operable, but has caused the debtor a considerable amount of money. I’m not clear if construction may or may not be the best avenue for the debtor at this time,” Cornell told the court. “Why not just consider liquidating it and move on?”
Celsius’ attorneys pushed back, claiming that Celsius’ operation already included more than 43,000 mining rigs, with plans to reach 112,000 mining rigs “sometime in Q2 of 2023.”
Pat Nash, Celsius’ lead attorney, told the court that the mining subsidiary was mining approximately 14.2 bitcoins (BTC) per day – and expected to mine 10,100 bitcoins in 2022.
“If everything goes well, in 2023 we hope and expect to be in a position to mine approximately 15,000 bitcoin a day,” Nash told the court (Nash presumably meant 15,000 bitcoins in the entire year, as only roughly 900 total bitcoins can currently be mined per day).
Even if Celsius’ promises to mine 10,100 this year are accurate (something that is difficult to independently verify), at current market prices that would yield approximately $225 million – only a fraction of what is needed to make Celsius’ solvent.
When Celsius begins to make good on its $5.5 billion in liabilities – $4.7 billion of which represents customer holdings – its customers will almost certainly be last to get their money back. And by then, there might not be any money left.
Read more: Celsius Bankruptcy Filings Hint Retail Customers Will Bear Brunt of Its Failure
“Celsius has set the stage for conflict between its customers and its sophisticated institutional investors,” Daniel Gwen, a business restructuring associate at New York-based law firm Ropes & Gray, told CoinDesk.
“In particular, Celsius has pointed out in its pleadings that customers transferred ownership of crypto assets to Celsius, making those customers unsecured creditors. This detail may undercut customer expectations, who thought they were depositing their assets into a construct similar to a traditional bank,” Gwen added.
Nash told the court on Monday that Celsius has approximately 500,000 depositors, 300,000 of which have more than $100 worth of crypto in their accounts.
Celsius’ attorneys asked the judge to redact names and other personally identifying information from Celsius’ creditor matrix and other documents, citing Celsius’ employees and corporate creditors’ fear for their personal safety.
“These cases have generated a lot of press and social media commentary. Certain employees have been receiving death threats and hate mail,” an attorney for Celsius told the court. “We received certain communications from scheduled corporate creditors stating that corporate principals have been receiving death threats and hate mail as well.”
The second hearing in Celsius’ bankruptcy proceedings will be held remotely on the morning of August 10.
The U.S. Trustee is currently in the process of forming and appointing a committee of creditors. These committees are typically made up of the seven largest unsecured creditors of the debtor, and help oversee the bankruptcy proceedings, investigate the debtor’s conduct and business operations, and help the court formulate a reorganization plan for the company’s debt."
191,112,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/20/prosecutors-raid-7-korean-exchanges-amid-terra-probe-report/,Prosecutors Raid 7 Korean Exchanges Amid Terra Probe: Report,Seven exchanges and eight other addresses have been raided in connection to the Terraform Labs fraud investigation.,2022-07-20,"Seven cryptocurrency exchanges in South Korea have been raided by prosecutors probing a fraud case in connection with the collapse of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and LUNA, according to Yonhap News Agency.
Bithumb, Upbit, Coinone and four other local exchanges have been raided alongside eight residential and office addresses, the report said.
TerraUSD fell dramatically off its U.S. dollar-peg in May, causing an industry-wide fallout that saw several hedge funds and exchanges fall victim to overexposure.
Investigators are now seizing material from the raids in order to ascertain whether Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon is guilty of intentionally causing the collapse of UST and LUNA.
In May, Korean police moved to freeze Terraform Labs' assets to prevent the company from embezzling funds that may be considered fraudulent.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA"
192,307,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/07/22/to-use-or-hold-solving-the-classic-crypto-conundrum-with-a-dual-token-model/,To Use or Hold? Solving the Classic Crypto Conundrum With a Dual Token Model,"Where blockchain is concerned, two really can be better than one.",2022-07-22,"Are two tokens better than one? It’s a question that blockchain developers are increasingly wrestling with, even if the major networks aren’t likely to change their model anytime soon.
Although the traditional single-token system favored by Bitcoin and Ethereum undoubtedly has its merits – deep liquidity, simplicity – only a two-token model can solve blockchain's perennial economic conflict that stymies network growth by disincentivizing actual network use.
Let me explain.
Da Hongfei is the founder of the Neo blockchain and a developer of the international ISO-TC307 blockchain standard.
Ultimately, all blockchains share a common goal: to reliably record transactions, store economic value and engender network growth. Sure, they set about achieving these goals in various ways, and some have stronger privacy guarantees than others. But fundamentally, they pull in the same direction.
At present, the vast majority of blockchain ecosystems depend on a single token,one that reflects the value of the project and is simultaneously used as a store of value (similar to a stock), a medium of exchange (money), a mining reward and a way to pay transaction fees. Therein lies the problem.
Holders of a crypto asset – the very lifeblood of any token-based economy – support the project and want it to succeed. They amass tokens because they like the tech, trust the developers and have faith that a project (and its native asset) will succeed.
See also: Bitcoin's Biggest Question Isn't Ease of Use, It's 'Why Use it?' | Opinion (2015)
However, if they spend their tokens – on gas fees for instance – they reduce their stake in the whole enterprise. Conversely, if they refuse to part with their tokens, they neglect actually using a network.
This paradox is easy to understand but difficult to reconcile. Unlike currencies, crypto assets have the potential to markedly appreciate over time, making them attractive to long-term savers. This is a good thing from the perspective of blockchains, whose developers strive to create loyal communities that spread the good word.
The choice between actively using a protocol (and reducing their stake through paying gas fees) or holding onto tokens to hopefully profit at a later date is an economic and emotional conflict.
There is also a question of influence. In some ecosystems, spending your tokens can reduce the amount of authority and leverage you have in certain governance models. This makes users even more reluctant to “spend” their hard-won tokens on utility use-cases.
But there's an alternative.
You shouldn’t have to eat into your tokens just to transact value. It’s like buying a cup of coffee with your Starbucks (SBUX) shares, or snapping up the latest iPhone with your precious Apple (AAPL) stock. And it’s particularly painful when transaction fees skyrocket due to network congestion.
Back in February, fees for transacting on Ethereum breached previous records after rising above $20 for the first time. If you’re an Ethereum diehard, parting with $20 of ETH every time you want to make a transaction is like discarding a Lotto ticket before the draw occurs. After all, that $20 might be worth $200 in five years.
A dual-token economy fixes this. In such a scenario, one token fulfills governance duties, while another is reserved solely to pay gas. In such a system, holders of the primary token can be considered the “owners” of the network, as they are entitled to influence the project’s direction via voting. The gas token, meanwhile, is completely decoupled from the main asset. Thus the ""stake reduction through use"" problem is solved.
Dual-token systems are still in the minority, and perhaps that’s because blockchain OGs are reluctant to introduce sweeping changes to their model. We have seen several blockchains fork in the past, and the ensuing fallout is invariably ugly. Modifying a protocol’s basic rules by introducing a separate gas token isn’t a decision to take lightly.
Second- and third-generation blockchains, however, appreciate the benefits of issuing separate tokens for governance/payments and incentives/gas. And it’s not just blockchains either: Many GameFi projects, stablecoin protocols and lending/funding platforms have all bought into a two-token system, meaning their users no longer need to sacrifice liquidity or compete for scarce on-chain resources.
Projects such as Neo (my project), VeChain, Ontology, Axie Infinity and Frax all experiment with differing two-token models and, in my view, future-proofing their businesses.
That said, as with any experimental technology, protocol designs can go awry. This was demonstrated by the catastrophic implosion of the Terra blockchain, which used a native asset, LUNA, to help secure a series stablecoins, most notably the dollar-denominated UST token.
See also: 'Built to Fail'? Why TerraUSD's Growth Is Giving Finance Experts Nightmares | Opinion
Researchers noted long before its collapse that the network's design created incentives to short the stablecoin, an issue that isn't and need not be repeated in other two-token systems.
The economics of a two-token system can be, as several projects have already demonstrated, sound. There are several common characteristics to a two-token model.
Firstly, the primary token typically has a limited total supply, and is used for governance, share-of-voice or dividend distribution. It is often allocated via a public sale or grants.
In contrast, the secondary token – or utility token – has an unlimited or resilient supply. It is used for on-chain payments and gas fees, and is rewarded to participants of its ecosystem or primary token holders.
The price of a utility token rises when the growth rate of economic activity exceeds its inflation supply rate. As the yield of utility tokens rises, the demand and price for the primary token rises until the yield reaches a new equilibrium level.
In the end, utility tokens form a positive feedback to governance tokens through economic activity.
Following this model, the economic/emotional conflict that forces users to choose between actively using the protocol and investing long-term is solved. When a utility token is used for ongoing incentives and system growth, primary token holders are incentivized to take part in on-chain activities and secure the network.
With cutting-edge technology like blockchain, novel ideas need to be embraced. A two-token model is no longer an outré fantasy but a workable solution to a maddening problem. Where blockchain economies are concerned, two really can be better than one."
193,83,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/22/three-arrows-capital-founders-says-terra-gbtc-trades-led-to-fund-blowup-report/,"Three Arrows Capital Founders Say Terra, GBTC Trades Led to Fund Blowup: Report","“What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effectively zero,” Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu said.",2022-07-22,"Trades involving the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), Terra’s luna (LUNA) and terraUSD (UST) tokens eventually led to the blowup of beleaguered crypto fund Three Arrows Capital, its founders told Bloomberg.
The fund's founders Kyle Davies and Su Zhu had previously confirmed they took on some $200 million in losses related to LUNA and the now-imploded algorithmic stablecoin UST. Prices of the two tokens entered a death spiral in mid-May and fell to nearly zero in the following weeks.
“What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effective zero in a matter of days and that this would catalyze a credit squeeze across the industry that would put significant pressure on all of our illiquid positions,” Zhu explained. He added that Three Arrows Capital, popularly referred to as 3AC, had failed to flag risks related to Terra.
LUNA lost nearly all of its value over the course of a week in mid-May, while ecosystem algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) fell to a few pennies after losing its intended peg with the U.S. dollar.
3AC was one of Terra’s most vocal bulls, and was additionally one of the largest holders of GBTC, an institutional bitcoin product.
Grayscale and CoinDesk are independent subsidiaries of the Digital Currency Group (DCG).
As a regulated product, GBTC allowed investors like 3AC to purchase shares directly by giving bitcoin to the trust. Holders could then sell the shares on over-the-counter markets for a premium – which netted a hefty profit for holders and became an attractive trade among investors.
GBTC shares were locked for six months, meaning falling prices led to holders taking on losses instead of profits. GBTC’s premium switched to a discount over the past year, reaching a record discount in June. This meant massive losses for investors like 3AC who piled on billions of dollars worth of exposure to the product. However, using leverage to juice up returns led to tears instead.
GBTC lost value in the past few months amid a market-wide decline. GBTC shares traded at over $34 at the start of this year, before sliding more than 50% to $12 earlier this week.
3AC continued to borrow from lenders expecting a market rebound. This was until bitcoin (BTC) fell to nearly $20,000 in late June, causing the firm’s positions to go awry and making it unable to repay any loans. The fund lost money on luna, its GBTC shares traded at a discount, and overall market declines meant all altcoin token holdings fell drastically in value.
“That was extremely painful for us,” Zhu said, referring to bitcoin’s fall. “That ended up being kind of the nail in the coffin.”
Investors are claiming that the defunct fund still owes them $2.8 billion. However, a 1,157-page court filing released on Monday shows individual claims worth over $1 billion.
Read more: Three Arrows Capital Founders Break Their Silence, Look to Move to Dubai: Report"
194,309,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/07/25/first-mover-asia-btc-falls-below-224k-coinbase-shares-remain-alluring-for-institutional-investors/,First Mover Asia: BTC Falls Below $22.4K; Coinbase Shares Remain Alluring for Institutional Investors,"Cathie Wood’s Ark Invest, ETF issuer Exchange Traded Concepts, Cullinan Associates and Utah-based Refined Wealth Management all significantly added COIN to their portfolios as per June 30 filings.",2022-07-25,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin trades sideways on Sunday but drops below $22.4K.
Insights: Crypto exchange Coinbase's shares have plunged this year, but several institutional investors have been snapping up shares.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin (BTC): $22,318 -1%
Ether (ETH): $1,560 -0.3%
Bitcoin Falls Below $22.4K; Other Cryptos Drop
Bitcoin traded sideways on Sunday to fall below $22,400, well off mid-week highs.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading around $22,300, down a percentage point over the previous 24 hours. Bitcoin had reached a more than one-month high on Wednesday, cracking $24,000, and was still trading comfortably over $23,000 early Friday before investors revisited their anxieties over inflation and the economy to back away from riskier assets.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was trading at $1,560, also down slightly for the same period. Other cryptos were largely in the red, with YGG and AXS both off more than 7%. The crypto Fear & Greed Index has improved over the past two weeks, but remains in fear territory, reflecting deep concerns about conditions potentially affecting crypto.
To be sure, market observers have viewed bitcoin's recent tenacity above $22,000 positively amid an unexpectedly high consumer price index (CPI) this month, slowing economic indicators and poor earnings. But crypto markets this week also struggled to make sense of Tesla's (TSLA) decision to jettison $936 million of its bitcoin holdings, the latest pivot in company founder and crypto influencer Elon Musk's ever-changing relationship with digital assets. Bitcoin has increasingly responded to the wider environment, including stock prices, which have plummeted this year.
""BTC did see some positive price action following its resilience, post the CPI data earlier this month,"" wrote Joe DiPasquale, the CEO of crypto fund manager BitBull Capital, in an email to CoinDesk. ""The fact that news of Tesla selling its BTC holdings did not crash the price is also a positive sign for the bulls.
FOMC meeting
Investors will now be eyeing this week's interest rate decision by the U.S. central bank's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). The FOMC is widely expected to approve a 75-basis point hike, robust enough to satisfy critics of Federal Reserve timidity in tackling inflation but reasonable enough to encourage those who prefer a more moderate approach that is less likely to spur a steep recession and affect assets.
""With this month's FOMC around the corner, we will be taking a conservative approach until the Fed's future direction becomes clearer,"" DiPasquale wrote.
Crypto declines tracked major equity indexes on Friday as the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell nearly 2% and the S&P 500, which has a heavy tech component, dropped almost a percentage point. Stocks, like cryptos though, had their best week in a while after months of losses. Gold rose slightly, although it has also steadily fallen from March highs over $2,000.
In a weekly review to investors, First Republic Bank noted weakening in the once-hot housing market, a sign that rising interest rates may finally taking a bite from demand. The National Association of Home Builders index dropped for a seventh straight month. U.S. housing starts in June were also unexpectedly weak, among other falling indicators.
Three Arrows Capital
Meanwhile, the founders of insolvent crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, Su Zhu and Kyle Davies, described the firm's collapse as ""regrettable,"" but denied claims they pulled money from the fund before its collapse, according to Bloomberg report. Three Arrows' implosion stemmed from the fall Terra ecosystem that has rippled through the industry since May. Investors are claiming Three Arrows still owes them $2.8 billion.
Yet in a report, banking giant Citi said that crypto contagion fears tied to recent events, including digital asset lending platform Celsius' failing, have peaked. Staked ether’s discount to ether (ETH) has narrowed, which suggests some liquidity stress may have passed, the report said, adding that the “acute deleveraging phase” has now ended given many of the large brokers and market makers in the sector have disclosed their exposures. In a further positive sign, stablecoin outflows have been stemmed, the bank said, and outflows from crypto exchange-traded funds (ETF) have also stabilized in recent weeks.
DiPasquale wrote that ""if the Fed remains aggressive"" with rate hikes, ""we could easily see BTC return to $20,000 or lower."" But he added optimistically that ""accumulation in that range could be a promising long-term opportunity.""
S&P 500: 3,961 -0.9%
DJIA: 31,899 -0.4%
Nasdaq: 11,834 -1.8%
Gold: $1,727 +0.4
Coinbase's Enduring Allure Among Institutional Investors
Coinbase’s stock is down nearly 70% on the year, outpacing the declines of bitcoin. While many funds have used the onset of the bear market to reduce their stake in the exchange, there are also many institutional investors that have used the chance to acquire shares for what they perceive as a discount.
According to data compiled by Whale Wisdom, which tracks quarterly filings of the form 13F that discloses fund managers’ new investments, Cathie Wood’s Ark Invest, exchange-traded fund issuer Exchange Traded Concepts, Cullinan Associates and Utah-based Refined Wealth Management all significantly added COIN to their portfolios as per filings dated June 30.
Ark Invest’s Wood has been a long-time Coinbase bull, highlighting in May that the U.S.-based exchange had no exposure to either the terraUSD (UST) stablecoin or the luna (LUNA) token.
“Given its inherent profitability, competitive position and massive opportunities, we believe the company is right to focus on investing in its derivatives offerings, [non-fungible token] platform and international expansion,” Wood wrote in a note outlining her bullish thesis on the company.
2.6 million shares
Whale Wisdom data shows that all firms that filed a 13F by June 30 collectively bought 2.6 million shares.
The Wall Street Journal said that 14 analysts it polled gave Coinbase a buy option for retail investors while nine gave it a hold, and two ranked it a sell.
The average stock target price from the polled analysts is $106.05, which would give it a $23 billion market cap.
Before the company did its initial public offering last year, its pre-IPO contracts were trading as high as $317, which would give the exchange a valuation of over $75 billion. Its current market cap is just under $20 billion. Even under the most conservative appraisals, there’s room to grow.
Australia new home sales
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): Chicago Fed national activity index (June)
10:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(2:30 p.m. UTC): Dallas Fed manufacturing business index (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Three Arrows Founders Break Their Silence; SEC Calls 9 Cryptos ‘Securities’ in Insider Trading Case
""First Mover"" dove into the biggest stories of the day. CoinDesk Indices Managing Director Jodie Gunzberg shared her insights as bitcoin (BTC) topped $23,000. Plus, former prosecutor Ian McGinley joined to discuss the fallout after a former Coinbase employee was arrested over allegations of crypto insider trading.
Silvergate CEO Sees More Near-Term Pain for Crypto but Still Bullish on Bitcoin Lending: Silvergate posted strong second-quarter earnings, outperforming its crypto peers’ due to strong risk management.
FTX to Offer Early Liquidity to Customers of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Voyager: The crypto exchange will allow the customers to create accounts funded by an early distribution of a part of their bankruptcy claims.
Bank of Central African States Urged to Introduce Common Digital Currency: Report: The regional bank is a staunch critic of the Central African Republic's decision to make bitcoin legal tender in April.
Nexo, Crypto Lender on Prowl for Ailing Rivals, Faces Declining Deposits: An analysis of crypto lender Nexo's attestations, including older data retrieved using the Wayback Machine, reveals just how much its deposits have declined in recent months.
Three Arrows Capital Founders Say Terra, GBTC Trades Led to Fund Blowup: Report: “What we failed to realize was that luna was capable of falling to effectively zero,” Three Arrows Capital co-founder Su Zhu said.
Does Crypto Still Care About Elon Musk?: Tesla’s initial BTC purchase contributed to a wild, two-year price climb. But markets were unphased after the car company offloaded most of its bitcoin.
Other voices: 1. The many lives of cryptocurrency (Axios)
""Tesla’s bitcoin sale, for all the caveats about freeing up cash, confirms what some of us knew all along: Elon Musk isn’t someone you should look to for guidance on cryptocurrency. He’s just a particularly loud, impulsive and unreliable follower."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""We need to take this action to address the mismatch between our available assets and liabilities caused by the individual who breached his contract with us. It may take some time before we can recover funds owed to us in the litigation actions we are taking against this individual."" (CoinFLEX blog)"
195,28,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/07/27/kucoin-calls-wluna-rumors-disturbing-says-no-exposure/,KuCoin Says It Has No Exposure to wLUNA Tokens,"The crypto exchange's CEO, Johnny Lyu, calls the rumors ""quite disturbing.""",2022-07-27,"Crypto exchange KuCoin has denied having exposure to luna tokens amid chatter the company was facing possible insolvency after the Terra ecosystem's collapse in mid-May.
Rumors of trouble at KuCoin are thanks to “otteroooo,” a crypto-related Twitter account that last week alleged the exchange held large quantities of wrapped luna (wLUNA) in its wallet addresses and suffered losses as LUNA prices fell 99.7%. The once-popular otteroooo account has since shut down.
Otteroooo claimed that KuCoin held wLuna, even though the exchange didn't offer deposit or withdrawal services for those tokens to its users. That, according to otterooo, meant KuCoin took on massive losses as it held a token that greatly lost its value.
In a blog post earlier this week, however, KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu said that the exchange supported ERC-20 LUNA before and that the service was suspended in May. Lyu explained that the exchange offered wLuna to users during a time period between January 2021 and May, but swapped the tokens after the old luna tokens ceased to exist – thus providing a rationale for its wLuna holdings at the time.
“Most funds in KuCoin wallets do not belong to KuCoin; they belong to our users,” Lyu continued. “Having a LUNC wallet does not necessarily mean KuCoin as a company is holding lots of LUNC tokens, and I'm sure the difference is obvious.”
Lyu further stated that KuCoin’s recent $150 million fundraising round had nothing to do with Luna nor was it about the need for capital to pay off depositors.
Speaking to CoinDesk, Lyu said it was “quite disturbing” to see that a large part of the crypto community took the rumors being circulated on Twitter seriously.
“Builders in the industry do not want to see such an event happen,” Lyu said, adding that the current market situation “incited suspicion and we understand those prone to it.”
As a result, KuCoin launched an “Anti-FUD Fund” on Tuesday as an educational initiative to provide accurate information to community members and crypto users and to take legal action against those who start rumors. (FUD stands for fear, uncertainty and doubt.)"
196,277,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/04/circle-invested-in-2-hacked-crypto-companies-adding-to-its-headaches-amid-stablecoin-scrutiny/,"Nomad, Slope Hacks Create New Annoyance for Their Shared Backer Circle Internet Financial","The venture-capital arm of the USDC stablecoin-issuer gave money to Nomad and Slope, which were both exploited this week.",2022-08-04,"This week’s nearly $200 million exploit of Nomad, the cross-chain bridge, and the $6 million drained from Slope Financial wallets have something in common: Both projects are backed by Circle Internet Financial’s venture-capital division.
It’s an additional headache for Circle as it aims to go public later this year. The company, which got into VC investing in late 2021, is best known for issuing a stablecoin called USD Coin (USDC). The entire stablecoin space finds itself under greater regulatory scrutiny following this year’s collapse of Terra’s terraUSD (UST).
Circle, which invests in early-stage blockchain projects and companies, participated in the $8 million Series A for Slope Finance in February and the $22.4 million seed round for Nomad in April.
“We are monitoring the current situation,” a Circle spokesperson responded when CoinDesk asked for a comment regarding the Nomad exploit. The statement was repeated when Circle was asked about Slope Finance.
Circle’s ties to Nomad and Slope didn’t cause any financial damage to the company, according to the spokesperson. The investments, however, showed how the interconnections of a growing industry can cast a shadow.
Circle’s USDC, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, is the second-largest stablecoin, with a $54 billion market capitalization, according to CoinMarketCap data. It trails only Tether’s $66 billion USDT.
Read more: What Is a Stablecoin?
After UST – another stablecoin that used a riskier method of maintaining its peg to the dollar – imploded this year, there were rumblings in Washington that more stablecoin regulation could be on the way.
Unlike UST, which was supposed to keep its one-to-one relationship with the dollar via an algorithm tied to another coin, LUNA (issued by Terra), Circle’s USDC pool of assets looks much more plain vanilla.
In a bid to increase transparency, Circle last month released an unaudited reserve report showing that USDC is backed by $42.1 billion in short-term U.S government bonds and $13.6 billion in cash, funds that could be used to stabilize the coin’s peg and ease industry-wide liquidation fears.
Read more: Circle's Cautious USDC Approach Has Paid Off, Despite Missteps"
197,308,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/08/05/the-fake-team-that-made-solana-defi-look-huge/,The Fake Team That Made Solana DeFi Look Huge,We already knew that crypto developers cannot always be trusted. But can we even trust the data?,2022-08-05,"CoinDesk reporters Danny Nelson and Tracy Wang on Thursday released a bombshell report that could tarnish the reputation of the entire Solana ecosystem. More than that, the dizzying tale highlights serious social vulnerabilities across blockchain and crypto development and investing.
At the center of the story is a network of 11 developers who collaborated on a complex web of decentralized finance (DeFi) services based around a Solana stablecoin exchange called Saber. The developers, with names including Surya Khosla, Larry Jarry, 0xGhostchain and Goki Rajesh, succeeded in creating trading and staking services that attracted a claimed $7.5 billion in deposits, known as “TVL” or total value locked.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Nelson and Wang have discovered, however, that those developers were not real people. Instead, they and others were aliases of just two men, the brothers Dylan and Ian Macalinao. CoinDesk’s reporters gained access to a blog post that was written by Ian Macalinao as a seeming confession to the long con. The post was never published.
That $7.5 billion in deposits made up the lion’s share of all the money tallied on Solana services in early fall of 2021, when the chain’s DeFi deposits totaled roughly $10.5 billion. TVL is often taken as a measure of success for smart-contract services or platforms, and Solana’s sizable deposits helped bolster its claim to be an up-and-coming competitor to the Ethereum blockchain.
That narrative, in turn, had a substantial role in driving the Solana token price from under $40 in July of last year to a peak of $259 in November 2021. A significant portion of the bullish Solana narrative now seems to have been based on a series of deceptions.
The developer personas weren’t all that was fake. The Macalinao brothers’ operation with Saber was seemingly undertaken with explicitly deceptive intent: “I devised a scheme to maximize Solana’s TVL: I would build protocols that stack on top of each other, such that a dollar could be counted several times,” Ian Macalinao wrote in the unpublished blog post.
Though there’s much still unknown, what may be most striking about the scheme is that it’s not clear its goal was theft. The Macalinao brothers do not appear, for instance, to have used their swarm of false identities as a shield while mishandling user funds, as is all too common in such scenarios (though, again, this story is still developing).
See also: Why CoinDesk Respects Pseudonymity | Opinion
The greater share of harm to users of the Saber ecosystem of services seems to have instead resulted from the hack of an app called Cashio seemingly created by the Macalinao brothers. Further, users have now seemingly been abandoned, with the Macalinaos announcing they’re shifting focus to new projects on the upstart Aptos blockchain.
The staggering case highlights at least two serious specific vulnerabilities in the DeFi and crypto ecosystems, and some much larger thorny questions. First, it reignites the perpetual issue of anonymous developers in the crypto space. Bitcoin founding developer Satoshi Nakamoto remains pseudonymous, and there are many good reasons blockchain devs may wish to protect their real names.
But that norm also adds to the risk of a high-speed, high-stakes environment. Even a pseudonym can be trustworthy if they’re a known entity with their own track record, but it’s clear that standard isn’t being consistently followed by DeFi speculators. As Nelson and Wang’s reporting shows, the Macalinaos were able to bolster the reputations of their various identities simply by orchestrating fake Twitter conversations and having them trade endorsements.
The second discrete issue is the use of TVL, or total value locked, as a key metric in DeFi. The Macalinao story highlights both that the metric can be technically manipulated, in this case through counting assets multiple times across services that look distinct, but aren’t. This may be fixable, as top DeFi data service DefiLlama is making changes to prevent similar attempts to game metrics.
But there’s a broader, more complex issue that is going to be much harder to tackle. What the Saber story reveals is that less than a handful of people with dishonest intentions can profoundly distort cryptocurrency markets. The Macalinao brothers’ scheme created huge false signals about the value of Solana, which is still a top-10 crypto asset at this writing.
See also: Is Solana Leading Crypto Into Retail or Trailing Apple? | Opinion
“I believe it contributed to the dramatic rise of SOL,” Ian Macalinao wrote about the token in the unpublished post. (Personally, I dipped my toes into SOL last summer, but after seeing one too many chain pauses I sold my position for a loss and no longer hold the token.)
We’ve seen even more troubling failures and deceptions in recent months from the likes of Terra/LUNA, Three Arrows Capital and centralized lenders like Celsius Network. But those were, if nothing else, genuinely sprawling operations backed up by large messaging efforts and the appearance of seriousness.
That two twentysomethings in Texas could accomplish anything remotely comparable with nothing more than a series of carefully-managed fake Twitter profiles should be an even stronger reminder of the huge risks that seem, at least for now, inherent to cryptocurrency."
198,13,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/08/coindesk-20s-latest-change-is-the-biggest-yet/,CoinDesk 20’s Latest Change Is the Biggest Yet,Check out what's changed with CoinDesk's core group of cryptocurrencies and digital assets.,2022-08-08,"The collapse of terraUSD (UST) and luna (LUNC) has led to the biggest shakeup of the CoinDesk 20 since its start a couple of years ago. We have also decided to make a modification that gives a better indication of what’s happening in the market. Using data supplied from our friends at Kaiko, we’ve swapped out eight assets, the most changes the list has ever seen.
First the obvious: Algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST) and its “balancer” coin, luna (LUNC), imploded back in May, depleting nearly $60 billion in the process. Now that have those coins become shadows of their former selves, the successor coin, also called luna (LUNA), pales in comparison.
Another change we’ve made was to take out stablecoins entirely from the CoinDesk 20. That doesn’t mean stablecoins aren’t an important part of the crypto ecosystem – far from it. Rather, it has to do with the fact that stablecoin prices – with the obvious exception of the luna fiasco – tend to stay around $1 and don't give an indication of where money is going daily within crypto. If anything, it’s more of an indicator of the general market; the higher the increase in stablecoin market cap, the more money that’s going into crypto.
Yet once turned into stablecoins, those funds then get traded into other assets. Thus, in a way, including stablecoins would be a form of double counting. Therefore, two major stablecoins, tether (USDT) and USD coin (USDC), were removed from the CoinDesk 20.
Four other assets were also taken out of the CoinDesk 20 because their trading volumes over the past two quarters didn’t measure up to other coins. The tokens of layer 1 blockchains Polkadot (DOT) and Loopring (LRC) didn’t make the cut this round, nor did the tokens of metaverse darlings Gala (GALA) and Decentraland (MANA).
The removal of stablecoins and luna meant that there were four available slots for new coins. The new entrants are old names familiar to those following the CoinDesk 20.
Litecoin (LTC) made a surprising return to the list. Privacy coins monero (XMR) and zcash (ZEC) are once again in the CoinDesk 20, as are tron (TRX), EOS (EOS), bitcoin cash (BCH) and algorand (ALGO). Decentralized finance's (DeFi) kava (KAVA) rounds out the latest additions to the group of cryptocurrencies we’re following closely."
199,311,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/08/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-hovers-over-23k-in-weekend-trading-an-edgy-environment-at-seouls-blockchain-megaweek/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Above $23K in Weekend Trading; an Edgy Environment at Seoul's Blockchain Megaweek,Ether and most other major altcoins trade sideways as investors await further economic indicators.,2022-08-08,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds steady above $23K in weekend trading; most other major cryptos rise.
Insights: South Korea is the site of blockchain megaweek conferences. The atmosphere is excited but edgy because of recent events in the blockchain space.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $23,235 +1.2%
●Ether (ETH): $1,706 +0.7%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,145.19 −0.2%
●Gold: $1,790 per troy ounce +1.0%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.84% +0.2
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Holds Above $23K
By James Rubin
Bitcoin held its footing above $23,000 throughout the weekend as investors seemed mostly recovered from Friday's surprisingly strong jobs report.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at about $23,300, up slightly over the last 24 hours and roughly where it started the weekend. Bitcoin fell below $23,000 early Friday following the U.S. Labor Department report – which doubled most analysts' expectations for July job growth – before regaining its previous perch above the threshold. The additional jobs countered previous indicators suggesting the economy was slowing enough to allow the U.S. central bank to soon scale back steep interest rate increases that many investors believe will cast the economy into a recession and send riskier assets spiraling.
Bitcoin has lost more than 50% of its value since the start of the year, plummeting with stocks. Investors fretted about the dual threats of inflation and economic contraction. Digital assets have rallied along with stocks over the past three weeks, however, amid hopeful signs, and held fast the past three days.
""If bitcoin can hold onto the $23,000 level, that could be very promising for the medium-term outlook,"" Oanda Senior Market Analyst Americas Edward Moya wrote in an email, adding optimistically. ""Bitcoin has been stabilizing here and could see further bullish momentum on the break of the $25,000 level.
Ether, the second-largest crypto by market cap, was recently trading hands at approximately $1,700, up roughly a percentage point and about where it stood when the weekend began. Other major cryptos were mixed, with THETA and ATOM rising over 7% and 6%, respectively at one point, but FIL dropping more than 5%.
Cryptos tracked major equity markets on Friday, which dropped following the jobs numbers before regaining ground in the afternoon to finish flat. The tech-heavy Nasdaq fell 0.5% on Friday while the S&P 500, which has a strong technology component, was down 0.2%. Both indexes nevertheless advanced for a third consecutive week, buoyed not only by signs of slowing growth but upbeat forecasts by a number of global technology and financial services brands.
The 528,000 added jobs in July was more than double the consensus among analysts who study labor markets, and a clear sign that this one part of the economy remains strong.
""The economic stats have suddenly taken on a bit brighter hue,"" Moody's Analytics Chief Economist Mark Zandi tweeted on Sunday. ""The July jobs report shows the economy’s resilience and why we are neither in recession nor is a near-term recession inevitable.""
Zandi added that these trends would ""become clearer"" with the release of July's consumer price index data on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, crypto markets digested a mix of good and bad news. On Monday, an exploit of cross-chain messaging protocol Nomad allowed $200 million to be siphoned off the platform.
But markets were encouraged by the latest initiatives involving large institutional investors. Asset manager Brevan Howard completed the largest crypto hedge fund launch ever, with more than $1 billion in assets under management, and BlackRock (BLK) formed a partnership with crypto exchange Coinbase (COIN) to make crypto directly available to institutional investors. Coinbase's shares closed 10% higher on Thursday and jumped an additional 4.6% on Friday.
""Traditional finance firms continue their crypto push,"" Arcane Research noted in its Friday newsletter.
Investors will be eyeing Coinbase's second-quarter earnings report on Tuesday. Bitcoin miners Marathon Digital (MARA) and Riot Blockchain (RIOT) will also be announcing earnings early in the week.
Insights
An Edgy Blockchain Megaweek in South Korea
By Sam Reynolds
SEOUL, S. Korea — It’s blockchain megaweek in Seoul, with the BUIDL Asia, Eth Seoul and Korea Blockchain Week conferences stacked back-to-back over a 10-day period.
This being the first set of conferences in Asia post-coronavirus, there should be a certain energy in the air. There’s an excitement about the return of in-person conferences to the continent – masks and all – but the ghost of the Terra blockchain’s spectacular crash still looms large.
Prosecutors are on a warpath in Korea, raiding exchanges and the home of Terra’s founder while banning some current and former staff from leaving the country.
On stage at BUIDL Asia, the T word was not quite verboten but almost: CoinDesk heard that speakers were told not to mention Terra on stage. Of course, the Streisand effect was in full force and the word was used again and again to drive home a point.
But that’s not the first time there was a certain nervousness around the word.
Months ago, when LUNA was smoldering, CoinDesk reported that Korean VC Fund Hashed had taken a $3.5 billion hit on Terra’s LUNA token.
Almost immediately after the article was published, a public relations representative for Terraform Labs got in touch with CoinDesk – not to dispute the veracity of the story – the Hashed founder later confirmed the amount in an early August interview with Bloomberg – but rather to ask that language be toned down regarding Hashed’s participation in Terra’s funding rounds. Law enforcement was looking at anyone that touched the fundraise with the country’s largest magnifying glass.
Of course the question on everyone’s mind is, will someone get served a subpoena during Korea Blockchain week? So far there have been no reports of process servers gracing BUIDL Asia and Eth Seoul with their presence, but these were small events for what’s to come.
It was just last year when Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon confirmed he was served with a subpoena at Messari’s Mainnet crypto conference by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Stay tuned.
Korea Blockchain Week
ETHToronto
Marathon Digital Earnings
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
BlackRock and Coinbase Partner to Give Institutional Investors Greater Access to Crypto; Bank of England Rate Hike
""First Mover"" examined the latest news affecting crypto markets. The Bank of England has raised interest rates by 50 basis points, its largest hike since 1995. In a bright spot amid challenging times for Coinbase, BlackRock plans to offer crypto to institutional investors through Coinbase Prime. Charles Allen, BTCS CEO, joined markets discussion. Also, Alex Zinder had a business update from Ledger Enterprises and Frances Coppola broke down proposals from the Bank of International Settlements.
North Korea's Lazarus Hackers Blamed in deBridge Finance Cyberattack: Company co-founder Alex Smirnov warns all Web3 teams that the campaign is likely widespread.
Data Provider DeFiLlama De-emphasizes Double-Counted Crypto Deposits After Saber Revelation: The website “toggled off” double-counting after CoinDesk uncovered one Solana developer’s effort to fool the all-important metric for popularity in decentralized finance.
What the Merge Means for Ethereum Miners: There is speculation about ether miners moving to Ethereum Classic once proof-of-work is gone from the main chain, but mining pools remain split on where they will turn in a post-Merge world.
DeFi Protocol Voltz Could Bring 150% Interest Rate on Ether Deposits: As the Ethereum blockchain's Merge approaches, traders and venues are seeing the event as an opportunity to pocket fat yields – possibly signaling a renewed appetite for risk in crypto just months after its big market crash.
Master of Anons: How a Crypto Developer Faked a DeFi Ecosystem: The Macalinao brothers used a web of bogus identities to create the illusion of a dev community, juicing value on the Saber protocol and Solana blockchain. Now they're moving to Aptos.
Other voices: There’s always another nightmarish crypto hack around the corner (TechCrunch)
""The staggering case highlights at least two serious specific vulnerabilities in the DeFi and crypto ecosystems, and some much larger thorny questions. First, it reignites the perpetual issue of anonymous developers in the crypto space. Bitcoin founding developer Satoshi Nakamoto remains pseudonymous, and there are many good reasons blockchain devs may wish to protect their real names."" (CoinDesk columnist David Z. Morris) ... ""While the Russian invasion and [COVID-19] pandemic could take a dark turn, pushing inflation higher again, more likely is the worst of these supply shocks are behind us. Inflation will recede."" (Moody's Analytics Chief Economist Mark Zandi)"
200,31,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/09/former-terra-affiliated-project-kujira-to-issue-stablecoin/,Former Terra-Affiliated Project Kujira to Issue Stablecoin,The USK token is set to maintain its price peg by combining overcollateralization of ATOM tokens with trading incentives.,2022-08-09,"Kujira, the crypto project that was building on the Terra Classic blockchain and moved to its own layer 1 protocol on Cosmos ecosystem after Terra’s implosion, is about to issue a stablecoin called USK, the firm announced Monday in a blog post.
“Inspiration” to craft USK came from decentralized lending protocol MakerDAO and its stablecoin DAI, Kujira's team said.
Kujira is a blockchain development project that was first active on the Terra network. The effort created ORCA, a liquidation tool on the Anchor lending platform. After Terra’s algorithmic stablecoin, UST, and its stabilizer token, LUNC (then called luna), fell into a death spiral wiping out billions of dollars of investor money, Kujira moved to develop on the Cosmos protocol.
“As we plan to focus on payments and commerce and launch our own high-quality Kujira wallet, we felt that we would have far more flexibility for future integrations if we were able to launch our own native stablecoin,” the announcement said. “We rebuilt Kujira from the ashes of Terra Classic’s collapse. We understand just how important it is to handle a stablecoin correctly by pursuing transparency, community involvement, sustainable governance, while focusing on adoption and tangible value.”
Many stablecoins have struggled to keep their price stable in the last months as deleveraging and insolvencies hit crypto markets and blockchain firms. Central banks around the globe have been raising interest rates to combat surging inflation, drying up liquidity and driving investors to exit riskier investments, including crypto.
Read more: What's the Point of Stablecoins? Understanding Why They Exist
Kujira has designed USK to maintain its price stability through a combination of overcollateralization and trading incentives. The stablecoin is set to be “soft-pegged” to the U.S. dollar, allowing the exchange rate to deviate within a range versus a hard peg to $1.
Similar to DAI, USK would be overcollateralized by crypto assets, meaning that the stablecoin issuer’s treasury will hold more digital assets in value than the market capitalization of the stablecoin. The backing asset will initially be Cosmos’ native token, ATOM, with the team planning to add KUJI – the token issued by Kujira – in the near future, according to the post.
USK tokens can be minted (created) only by locking up crypto such as ATOM as collateral and borrowing USK against them for a 5% interest and a 0.5% minting fee. The fees that USK accrues will be distributed among KUJI token stakers. The interest rate and fee could be subject to change, according to the blog post.
The post emphasized that Kujira intends USK to be resistant to censorship. It explained that a key difference from DAI stablecoin is that USK doesn’t plan to hold Circle’s stablecoin USDC in its treasury to “avoid being easily censorable.” This line likely reflects news on Monday of the U.S. Treasury banning privacy-focused crypto-mixing service Tornado Cash, with Circle subsequently moving quickly to freeze the blacklisted addresses that interacted with the service.
USK will start its test mode on Friday, followed by two weeks of feedback before going live.
KUJI has rallied in the wake of the announcement. It is up 30% in the last 24 hours and trading higher than before the implosion of Terra in May. Cosmos’ ATOM is down 3.7% on the day in tandem with a general slump in the cryptocurrency market.
UPDATE (Aug. 11, 2022 06:55 UTC): Clarifies Kujira's move from Terra Classic in the first graf."
201,128,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/08/10/eu-official-says-europes-mica-bill-would-prevent-schemes-like-terra-from-happening/,EU Official Says Europe’s MiCA Bill Would Prevent Collapses Like Terra's,Peter Kerstens said the rules would require stablecoins to be fully collateralized and redeemable upon request.,2022-08-10,"SEOUL, South Korea – A European Union official told attendees at the Korea Blockchain Week conference in Seoul on Tuesday that the Terra collapse would have been impossible under the regulatory requirements laid out in the EU’s Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) bill.
Peter Kerstens, a technology and cybersecurity policy adviser at the EU’s executive arm, said the bill’s proposed compliance requirements would ensure stablecoin projects are more transparent and able to redeem customer assets upon request.
“We don’t want people to blow up the system or just go bust without any recourse, as we’ve seen for example recently with Terra-LUNA, which just melted away,” Kerstens said. “MiCA prevents such schemes from coming onto the market.”
The landmark legal framework, which hasn't been made into law yet, aims to provide regulatory clarity to the growing crypto industry in Europe. The legislation – which policymakers agreed to last month after nearly two years of debate – requires crypto issuers looking to do business in Europe to issue a white paper, register with authorities and in the case of stablecoins, have fully collateralized reserves.
Regulators around the world are wrestling with how best to oversee the crypto industry, a matter that has become more urgent as the industry has faced a spate of collapses, liquidations and bankruptcies.
In South Korea, the collapse of Terra has pushed regulators to speed up efforts to come up with their own comprehensive set of laws for that country’s crypto industry.
South Korean regulators have said that the coming Digital Asset Basic Act will take cues from their legal counterparts in the United States and Europe, including MiCA, “to improve global consistency” in crypto regulation."
202,321,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/16/jump-crypto-picked-to-revamp-solana-to-make-blockchain-more-reliable/,Jump Crypto Picked to Revamp Solana to Make Blockchain More Reliable,The crypto trading firm and builder is reupping its commitment after the once-hot blockchain hit potholes.,2022-08-16,"Jump Crypto is trying to revamp a core part of Solana’s infrastructure, seeking to boost the throughput and reliability of a network that’s been plagued by frequent outages and slowdowns.
The cryptocurrency arm of Chicago-based TradFi giant Jump Trading Group is building a new validator client, which is software that helps secure a blockchain. Additionally, Jump Crypto will “propose significant upgrades to Solana’s open-source core software,” according to a statement released Tuesday.
For Wall Street and other conventional finance firms like Jump, Solana turned into a key focus last year given that – unlike Ethereum and other blockchains used in decentralized finance (DeFi) – it was viewed as being able to keep pace of the incredibly fast pace of trading in older markets like stocks and derivatives. But the hype wasn’t always realized, with Solana breaking down in several high-profile incidents. Meanwhile, newer blockchains threaten Solana’s market share.
“Jump has unparalleled experience with over 20 years of scaling networks and building highly performant software systems,” Dan Albert, executive director of the Solana Foundation, said in the statement. “Their contributions to the Solana Network will improve mission-critical systems, helping the network scale to billions of users.”
Kevin Bowers, chief science officer at Jump Trading, will oversee the project. Through an initiative called Firedancer, Jump Crypto will build the validator client using the C++ programming language, which has a long history in the quantitative trading circles where Jump roams.
Jump Crypto’s statement Tuesday says the initiative is an “important step in the network’s continued decentralization.”
Jump Crypto has firsthand experience with the dangers of a project’s well-being resting too much on a single company’s shoulders. It’s a driving force behind Wormhole, a cross-blockchain bridge that got hacked earlier this year. Jump Crypto coughed up money to cover losses from the $320 million exploit.
Jump Crypto also expanded Wormhole onto the Terra blockchain last October. Months later, Terra’s UST stablecoin depegged in dramatic fashion, a blow that sent Terra’s LUNA token plummeting and users fleeing the network.
In the past year, the company has expanded beyond its pure trading roots, venturing into building key pieces of infrastructure for Solana and other popular layer 1 blockchains. The company, which emerged from the Chicago trading pits, has been at the forefront of electronic trading for more than two decades. It’s among the firms that built up the infrastructure of markets like stocks and derivatives so that they operate – literally – at the speed of light.
Read More: Jump Crypto Wants You to Know Its Name
Jump Crypto’s involvement in this Solana overhaul comes at an uncertain time for the once-hot blockchain. It suffered a major outage in June that rendered it unusable for over four hours, as well as a $5 million hack affecting thousands of user wallets earlier in August.
Solana’s SOL token is down 75% this year, trading relatively flat in recent months even as ether, the token for competing blockchain Ethereum, has more than doubled from its lows.
But it appears Jump is doubling down on Solana, even though it’s also a major backer of hot new “Solana-killer” blockchain Aptos.
“I’m excited for Jump’s engineers to bring a new perspective to the network and help improve network resiliency and efficiency,” Solana co-founder Anatoly Yakovenko said in the statement."
203,257,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/08/16/down-infinite-a-ham-fisted-attempt-to-rehabilitate-do-kwons-image/,‘Down Infinite’: A Ham-Fisted Attempt to Rehabilitate Do Kwon’s Image,"Why does crypto welcome back fraudsters, and other questions raised by a softball interview with Terra's founder.",2022-08-16,"Do Kwon, the disgraced co-founder of the Terra blockchain, has given his first public interview since his much-hyped stablecoin, UST, blew up, taking some $45 billion in investments and savings down with it. There have been numerous heartbreaking accounts of small-time investors facing financial difficulties and salacious stories about major crypto institutions that bet big on Terra, and lost, in its wake.
Of course, this isn’t the first time Kwon has spoken publicly. He frequently posts on Twitter about his new blockchain, his legacy, his family. But it is the first instance of a longform interview that could offer the full side of his story.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The interview follows in a long line of media events where besmirched and beclowned figures atone for bad decisions, offer explanations and, on rare occasions, share the type of wisdom only gleaned from being “down bad.” I say it could because Coinage, the new media startup producing the two-part series, so far largely fails to deliver on this promise.
Kwon’s story is bigger than Terra, a (once) multi-billion dollar network that attracted big and small investors to participate in the dream of decentralizing an economy built around a synthetic dollar. Its implosion rocked the crypto industry, contributing to a contagion event that brought down several prominent firms and is still being felt.
It’ll go down in history books as an example of mass delusion, in economics textbooks for its irrational exuberance and likely the crypto legal tradition as a fraud. It also represents some of the confusion about crypto’s future: How can a project with such a clear mission, convincing leader and widespread adoption fail so spectacularly?
The series seems designed to resuscitate Kwon’s sullied image. In a 30-minute interview, filmed over two days, Yahoo Finance alum Zack Guzman asks Kwon questions including, “Are you an Elizabeth Holmes,” did lawyers counsel him against speaking to the press, and is it “fair” to say UST was valueless from the start.
See also: Do Kwon: 'I Am Heartbroken' Over Pain Caused by UST
This is not to knock Guzman for asking obvious questions. There’s value in taking a compassionate approach to interviewing even discredited people and in drawing them out. There’s also value in listening to Kwon in a non-adversarial setting. But if you’re looking for information about what happened to Terraform’s massive bitcoin (BTC) treasury or why Kwon pulled money out of the Curve pool, a move that preceded the Terra network’s collapse, you’ll have to keep digging.
The tagline Coinage chose, “Down Infinite,” is a Kwon soundbite. It’s a perfect choice for a show that presents Kwon’s point of view uncritically. Not only is this Kwon’s story in his own words but also literally the voice of the publication. It’s also a joke Kwon has told before – and one that seemingly makes light of the real damage he caused to real people.
Indeed, little in the first episode could be considered new. There are a few interesting facts – Kwon more or less confirmed he was involved in failed algorithmic stablecoin Basis Cash, he denied shorting Terra, he alleges there may have been a “mole” at Terraform Labs and he said he has “never” been in touch with South Korean investigators – but no revelations.
Kwon does assume responsibility for Terra’s failure. He said it was an outcome he never predicted, and that his overconfidence was “super irrational.” The project consumed his life. He named his daughter Luna, and said he’s working to make that a name of which she can be proud.
There are times when he looks directly into the camera, as if to apologize directly to those he’s harmed. It is impossible to know what is going through Kwon’s head. As he said, watching a project that made him a billionaire, that put him on magazine covers, that was one of the fastest-growing crypto projects ever go up in flames is not the “type of experience” most people have had.
But it’s hard to say Kwon fully expresses guilt in the first episode, even when he assumes responsibility. He’s asked how he feels about a police raid as part of an investigation into Terra on the home of his former colleague Daniel Shin, with whom he founded the Chai payments network in Korea. Kwon has a “default answer.”
Kwon is not unsympathetic or even wavering. But there are moments when he breaks eye contact, when he seems to be casting about for others to share in the burden. He blames an old version of himself, an “alter ego” who was bombastic and said things he shouldn’t have, who possibly mocked Terra’s detractors as a way to willfully and deliberately mislead investors.
Even so, Terra’s failure seems like an expensive way to learn that “You cannot be emotional about markets, you can't blame people for shorting, you can't call people idiots for longing.”
So far, the series has generated little buzz. The first part garnered a hair over 23,000 views on YouTube, about 4,000 people have minted Coinage's free non-fungible token (NFT) and a couple of hundred people have joined their Discord.
Much of the public conversation around the series has focused on the fact that Terraform Labs is an investor in Coinage, which inevitably raises questions of journalistic independence. (Coinage is also part of “Web3-focused production hub” Trustless Media, which raised a $3.25 million seed round from investors including Sam Bankman-Fried and Ava Labs.)
Guzman, a Harvard graduate, wrote a Twitter thread where he outlined his journalistic ethics. Though there is a “conflict of interest,” the series is not meant to be objective but a way to explain the technical world of crypto to the public at large.
Guzman, too, was an investor in UST and LUNA, who lost out. He said in the interview that “a family friend” committed suicide after Terra’s collapse. There’s a long and drawn-out debate in crypto media about whether journalists should hold the assets they cover, considering the potential for bias or potential to significantly move these illiquid markets.
Guzman is coming from the point of view that his direct experience will inform the story. But I would ask, where is the rightful anger in this case?
See also: UST's Do Kwon and the Human Cost of Lunatic Hubris | Opinion
In the end, it’s not certain whether this interview helps viewers understand Kwon or conceal him more. It’s certainly not the only piece to turn him into a spectacle or a character, and perhaps Guzman is right in saying, “This isn’t a court of law.” It’s possible the interview merely holds a mirror to the crypto industry, which to its credit and fault seems to readily accept and welcome back former fraudsters.
There’s hope that Kwon’s coming interview with industry legend Cobie will be more informative. There’s also hope that part deux of the Kwon tales brought to you by Coinage will take a markedly different tone. But if this is the pilot for a promised media empire, you might write off the venture as another in a series of Kwon’s tragic mistakes.
CORRECTION (AUGUST 18, 2022 – 20:00 UTC): Updates download count for Coinage's subscriber NFTs. The series had approximately 4,000 NFT owners at the time of publication, not a couple hundred. We regret the error."
204,310,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/16/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-and-ether-fall-angry-that-hodlnaut-has-frozen-your-funds-too-bad-its-in-the-terms-and-conditions/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin and Ether Fall; Angry That Hodlnaut Has Frozen Your Funds? Too Bad, It’s in the Terms and Conditions","The Singapore-based crypto savings platform angered users with its decision, but the law may be on the company's side if a complaint ever makes it to court.",2022-08-16,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin falls below $24K before recovering slightly; ether is down.
Insights: Crypto savings platform Hodlnaut angered users by freezing withdrawals, but the law may be on the company's side if there's ever a court case.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $24,141 −1.0%
●Ether (ETH): $1,898 −2.7%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,297.14 +0.4%
●Gold: $1,794 per troy ounce −0.3%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 2.79% −0.06
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Falls Below $24K Before Recovering Slightly; Ether Drops
By James Rubin
Bitcoin seemed headed for a bright start to the week, topping $25,000 late Sunday (U.S. time) after flirting with the psychologically important threshold multiple times in previous days.
But the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization quickly retreated and was recently trading just over $24,000, down almost a percentage point over the last 24 hours, albeit still above the top part of the $20,000 to $24,000 range it's occupied for over a month. Investors remain in wait-and-see mode following weeks of sometimes hopeful and other times confounding economic indicators and company earnings.
""It seems the cryptocurrency, like many other instruments, is testing a potentially significant barrier following the recent recovery and we may be seeing some profit-taking,"" Craig Erlam, senior market analyst, U.K. and EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) for foreign exchange Oanda, wrote in an email. ""Whether that becomes a full rotation lower isn't clear yet but it doesn't appear to have the momentum for a breakout at this time.
Ether followed a similar pattern, rising to over $2,000 late Sunday before falling below $1,900. The second-largest crypto by market cap was recently down roughly 2.5% from the previous day, although well above levels earlier this summer amid growing investor enthusiasm for The Merge, which will change the Ethereum protocol from proof-of-work to the faster, more energy efficient proof-of-stake model. Two of Sunday's big winners, the popular meme coins SHIB and DOGE, were losers a day later, recently plunging more than 9% and 7%, respectively. MATIC tumbled more than 5%.
Equities trade sideways
Stocks fared somewhat better than major cryptos, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 increasing 0.6% and 0.4%, respectively, amid ongoing hope that inflation has peaked and the U.S. Federal Reserve may be able to back off some of its current monetary hawkishness. But commodity prices declined after a number of indicators showed slowing growth in China. The price of Brent crude oil, a widely regarded measure of the energy market, dropped over 3% to about $95 per barrel.
""The economic data from China overnight was very disappointing, to put it mildly,"" Erlam wrote. ""Combined with the lending figures on Friday, it does not paint a good picture of domestic demand or the growth outlook.""
Crypto news
A scotched deal between cryptocurrency custody company BitGo and crypto-focused financial services firm Galaxy Digital highlighted Monday's industry news. Earlier in the day, Galaxy Digital, the creation of noted investor Michael Novogratz, said it was abandoning its plan to purchase BitGo because the latter had failed to provide financial statements by an end-of-July deadline. The companies had first announced the deal in May 2021 for what was at the time about $1.2 billion in stock and cash.
Later Monday, BitGo said it was planning to sue Galaxy Digital for backing out of the merger agreement, and will seek $100 million in damages from Galaxy, the amount of a previously promised break-up fee.
The Federal Reserve announced it was publishing its final guidance for novel financial institutions to access its ""master accounts,"" something these firms need to participate in the global payment system. The announcement would seemingly move the U.S. central bank one step closer to possibly allowing Wyoming trust companies, like Custodia and Kraken Bank, access to these accounts.
European digital bank Revolut has been granted authorization by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission, allowing it to offer crypto services across the European Economic Area. The authorization will enable Revolut to offer crypto services to its 17 million customers.
And Singapore's High Court granted beleaguered crypto exchange Zipmex more than three months of creditor protection so that Zipmex can devise a funding plan, Bloomberg News reported.
Decoupling from macro events?
Arca Chief Investment Officer Jeff Dorman optimistically noted evidence of a decoupling between crypto prices and macroeconomic events. ""The coincidental timing of idiosyncratic digital asset events (LUNA/UST, defaults/bankruptcies, ETH 2.0 Merge) and macro events (peak inflation, commodities rolling over, bad economic data leading to 'bad news = good news') makes it difficult to prove the decoupling,"" Dorman wrote in a Monday newsletter. ""But if you look elsewhere in digital assets, there has been massive dispersion in digital asset prices since mid-June.""
He added: ""All the market leaders that released big news/partnerships/tokenomics changes ultimately rallied the most (UNI, DYDX, LDO, ETH, CRV, AAVE, MATIC, CHZ, etc.). This is a very encouraging sign that digital assets are once again trading on their own information flows rather than being 100% tied to macro events.""
Angry That Hodlnaut Has Frozen Your Funds? Too Bad, It’s in the Terms and Conditions
Earlier this month, Singapore-based crypto savings platform Hodlnaut froze withdrawals and token swaps citing “difficult market conditions.”
Naturally, its user base was aghast and the legal threats came in fast and furious over Twitter. At the time, Holdnaut was applying for a license from the Monetary Authority of Singapore (it has since withdrawn the application), and surely this isn’t the type of behavior becoming of a licensed institution.
Except this is all laid out in the terms and conditions, and Singapore courts may favor upholding this contractual agreement.
“The standard terms and conditions of the crypto lenders will usually provide it with a broad and absolute discretion to suspend all, or any part, of its services to its customers,” Yuankai Lin, partner at RPC Premier Law Singapore told CoinDesk via email. “In Hodlnaut's case, it did have a contractual right under its standard Terms and Conditions to ‘suspend or terminate the Service or any part of the Service, at its discretion and without prior notice to the User.’”
Lin said that, like any other digital service, the user would need to indicate their acceptance to open an account and this agreement would be binding on them.
As for any legal challenge, this might not go anywhere. Lin said this has been tried before in the TradFi world, and the courts have ruled on the side of the institution.
“The Singapore courts will generally recognize and uphold contractual terms giving the bank absolute discretion in relation to certain acts, provided that the bank exercises this discretion in good faith and not arbitrarily or irrationally. Any party seeking to challenge the bank's act will essentially have to prove the bank had abused its discretion,” he said to CoinDesk.
Lin said that while there have not been any reported decisions in Singapore on crypto lenders specifically exercising their discretion to freeze funds, he expects the same framework of discretion from TradFi to be applied.
As of now, MAS has been focused on regulating crypto from an anti-money laundering and combating terror financing perspective.
“MAS has stated that it will look towards widening the scope of cryptocurrency regulations in Singapore to cover more areas such as consumer protection, market conduct, and reserve backing for stablecoins,” Lin told CoinDesk.
Without a license from MAS, Holdnaut won’t be able to offer token swap services. It can however still offer lending and borrowing services for cryptocurrency-related transactions, Lin explained, as it is not an activity currently regulated by the MAS.
Holdnaut has not applied for bankruptcy protection unlike other CeFi lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital. The company has previously announced that it has ""no exposure or loans"" with Three Arrows Capital or Celsius.
Per previous CoinDesk reporting the lender is working with Singapore-based law firm Damodara Ong on a timeline for a plan to preserve user assets.
Hodlnaut has said on Twitter that it plans to provide another update to users on August 19.
9:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:30 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia monetary policy minutes
12:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(4:30 a.m. UTC): Japan tertiary industry index (MoM/June)
5 p.m. HKT/SGT(9 a.m. UTC): Eurostat trade balance n.s.a. (June)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin (BTC) briefly tops $25,000 for the first time since June. Brent Xu, Umee Founder and CEO, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss. Plus, Monero’s privacy-focused crypto protocol upgrade is now live. And Terraform Labs CEO Do Kwon broke his silence about Terra's collapse.
Crypto Lender Celsius On Pace to Run Out of Cash by October: The firm, which filed for bankruptcy protection in July, is also short of $2.8 billion in crypto assets, the court filing reveals.
Acala’s Stablecoin Falls 99 Percent After Hackers Issue 1.3 Billion Tokens: A bug in the protocol’s newly-deployed iBTC-aUSD liquidity pool left the door wide open for hackers to exploit.
Netherlands Arrests Suspected Developer of Sanctioned Crypto-Mixing Service Tornado Cash: The country's Fiscal Information and Investigation Service hasn't ruled out making more arrests.
JPMorgan: Ethereum Miners Face an Abrupt Change Following the Merge: Ethereum Classic miners are likely to be among the main beneficiaries of the shift to proof-of-stake validation, the bank said.
An Alleged Tornado Cash Developer Was Arrested. Are You Next?: If you’re developing a crypto mixer, it’s best to do it anonymously.
Other voices: Crypto Evangelist Mark Cuban Is in Trouble (TheStreet)
""Blockchain founders need to return to the space’s roots of decentralization, while using “DeFi” as a guiding ethos to introduce smart contracts and new incentive structures into legacy industries."" (Unchained founder Matt Waters/CoinDesk)"
205,228,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/17/crypto-broker-genesis-cutting-20-of-workforce-as-ceo-michael-moro-exits/,Crypto Broker Genesis Cutting 20% of Workforce as CEO Michael Moro Exits,Moro is to be replaced on an interim basis by Chief Operating Officer Derar Islim.,2022-08-17,"Genesis CEO Michael Moro is stepping down as the company slashes 20% of its 260-person workforce following major losses tied to the collapse of Three Arrows Capital earlier this summer, reports Bloomberg.
Genesis – owned by Digital Currency Group (DCG), which is also the parent of CoinDesk – filed a $1.2 billion claim against failed crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital in July. DCG assumed that claim and associated liabilities from Genesis last month.
The New York-based broker was one of several companies impacted by the crypto market downturn in May. The implosion of LUNA and the Terra ecosystem, followed by the demise of crypto lender Celsius Network as well as the collapse of Three Arrows Capital, led to a slew of layoffs, bad debt and bankruptcy filings throughout the industry.
Current Chief Operating Officer Derar Islim, who joined Genesis in 2020, is replacing Moro on an interim basis as the company searches for a permanent replacement. Genesis has also brought on former SAC Capital and Point72 Asset Management President Tom Conheeney as a board member and senior adviser.
“The changes and investments we’re announcing today affirm our commitment to operational excellence as we continue to expand our services to meet the needs of our clients today and into the future,” Islim said in a statement.
UPDATE (Aug 17, 2022, 14:31 UTC): Adds paragraph on crypto market slump and additional details throughout."
206,226,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/08/18/cash-backed-husd-stablecoin-loses-peg-drops-to-092/,"Cash-Backed HUSD Stablecoin Loses Peg, Drops to 92 Cents",The stablecoin is trading as low as 89 cents against USDC on Curve Finance.,2022-08-18,"The HUSD stablecoin, which is issued by Stable Universal, has fallen to 92 cents, an 8% drop from its planned $1 peg, according to CoinMarketCap prices.
It is trading as low as 89 cents against the USDC stablecoin on decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol Curve Finance. The so-called depeg occurred 16 days after crypto exchange FTX removed HUSD from its basket of support USD stablecoins.
A stablecoin is a cryptocurrency designed to hold its value against another asset. This can be in the form of algorithmic stablecoins or reserve-backed coins, of which HUSD is an example. The stablecoin sector has been under intense regulatory scrutiny this year following the implosion of algorithmic stablecoin terraUSD (UST), which saw $18.71 billion evaporate alongside the collapse of Terra's LUNA token.
A year ago, HUSD published a breakdown of reserves that showed every issued token was backed by U.S. dollars held in cash in money market accounts. At press time HUSD has a market cap of $149.5 million.
HUSD is issued by Stable Universal and can be redeemed on a 1:1 basis against the U.S. dollar, according to the company's website.
Typically, when redemptions are live the price will gravitate toward the peg because if it's lower, traders can purchase tokens at a discount on an exchange and redeem for a full dollar through the company's website.
Stable Universal did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment."
207,220,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/08/30/crypto-lender-hodlnaut-placed-under-interim-judicial-management-by-singapore-court/,Crypto Lender Hodlnaut Placed Under Interim Judicial Management by Singapore Court,"The Singapore-based lender was placed under interim judicial management, a type of creditor protection, on Aug. 29.",2022-08-30,"Troubled crypto lender Hodlnaut has been placed under interim judicial management (IJM), a form of creditor protection, three weeks after it froze withdrawals due to ""difficult market conditions,"" according to an announcement.
Judicial management is a form of debt restructuring that sees an entity manage the business, property and assets of a distressed company. The company, in this case Hodlnaut, will also be protected from legal proceedings from third parties.
On Aug. 29, Hodlnaut's legal representatives attended a court hearing alongside two creditors, both of which submitted nominations for IJM candidates. The judge appointed Ee Meng Yen Angela and Aaron Loh Cheng Lee, care of EY Corporate Advisors Pte. Ltd., as Hodlnaut's interim judicial managers.
Hodlnaut applied to be put under judicial management on Aug. 13, five days after it froze withdrawals.
The Singaporean lender was one of several crypto companies that succumbed to the pressures of a crypto market downturn. Rival lender Celsius Finance filed for bankruptcy earlier this year while hedge fund Three Arrows Capital imploded following exposure to the Terra/LUNA ecosystem that collapsed in May, wiping out $83 billion in market cap.
Hodlnaut did not immediately respond to CoinDesk's request for comment.
Read more: Crypto Lender Hodlnaut Faces Singapore Police ‘Actions’ and Job Cuts"
208,320,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/01/first-mover-asia-waves-founder-defends-usdn-stablecoin-depegging-trashes-fears-of-a-ust-like-implosion-bitcoin-burrows-in-above-20k/,"First Mover Asia: Waves Founder Defends USDN Stablecoin Depegging, Trashes Fears of a UST-Like Implosion; Bitcoin Burrows in Above $20K",Sasha Ivanov told CoinDesk the USDN model uses four tokens to supply liquidity and to help the stablecoin retain its $1 peg.,2022-09-01,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin holds above $20K; ether climbs.
Insights: The founder of the Waves protocol defended the decision to add the SURF token to a basket supporting the USDN stablecoin.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $20,025 +1.4%
●Ether (ETH): $1,553 +2.3%
●S&P 500 daily close: 3,955.00 −0.8%
●Gold: $1,720 per troy ounce −0.2%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.13% +0.02
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin Burrows in Above $20K
By James Rubin
Fresh from its Tuesday rally back above the psychologically important $20,000 threshold, bitcoin burrowed in.
The largest cryptocurrency in market value was recently trading at roughly $20,100, up about a percentage point over the past 24 hours as investors looked ahead nervously after a month to forget in crypto markets. BTC has fallen more than 13% in August and nearly 20% since the middle of the month when a surge steeped in the false hopes of a return to more moderate monetary policy (since dashed by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell in Jackson Hole, Wyoming) sent the price up near $25,000.
The Fed is ""talking tough, tough, tough, which is why stocks and cryptos have been falling,"" Glen Goodman, crypto consultant at exchange eToro, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program.
Ether was recently changing hands at roughly $1,550, also rising more than a percentage point from Tuesday. The second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization has dropped 7% in August and more than 20% since mid-month euphoria about the Merge, the Ethereum blockchain's hotly anticipated protocol switch from a proof-of-work to more energy-efficient proof-of-stake sent spurred an ether price spike over $2,000.
Other major altcoins spent much of the day in the green, with LUNA and MATIC both up more than 2% at one point. ADA was recently down 1.3%.
Equities
Stocks that have correlated with cryptos for much of the year went a different way on Wednesday, falling for a fourth consecutive day. The tech-focused Nasdaq declined more than 0.5%, while the S&P 500, which has a strong tech component, and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) tumbled 0.8% and 0.9%, respectively to cap their own devilish month. The Nasdaq and S&P each plunged more than 4% after emerging from bear market territory during August's first week.
Central bankers and others trying to make sense of the confoundingly resilient employment market received some logic in management services firm ADP's August employment report that showed private-sector employers adding an unexpectedly low 132,000 jobs during the month. The total was 60% below the average of the previous three months and offered one of the few recent signs that labor markets may soon be slowing. Still, the reading is unlikely to sway the Federal Reserve from its commitment to boost interest rates aggressively to tame inflation, even at the expense of a continued economic contraction that is frightening asset markets.
In crypto news, South Korean customs authorities on Tuesday arrested 16 people involved in illegal foreign exchange transactions, reported local outlet Newsis. And as CoinDesk's Danny Nelson reported, Credit Suisse held tens of millions of dollars in “digital assets” for its clients at the end of the second quarter, according to regulatory filings. The disclosure underscored how traditional financial institutions are inching toward crypto custody.
eToro's Goodman called September ""the cruelest month for stock markets"" going back to the 1950s, noting cryptos' recent link to equity markets, and he also highlighted bearish sentiment on Twitter about the coming month. But summoning his inner contrarian, he added that he couldn't ""help but think the opposite.""
""Looking at the stock and the crypto charts that are correlated to them, they look bearish, but it's not a predetermined conclusion that we will definitely get down to that level and then go even lower,"" he said. ""There is hope that stocks and bonds, [and] cryptos could turn around.""
Is USDN Like UST? No, Says Waves Founder Sasha Ivanov
By Shaurya Malwa
Waves founder Sasha Ivanov dismissed criticism of the protocol’s recent decision to add the new SURF token as part of the basket of tokens that backs its USDN stablecoin, which some detractors say has “created a model similar to UST,” referring to Terra's algorithmic stablecoin.
Ivanov explained to CoinDesk over several Telegram messages on Wednesday that USDN’s model involves four tokens in its mechanics – WAVES, NSBT, USDN itself and SURF – with all of them supplying liquidity to, and helping USDN retain, its $1 peg.
“UST was backed by nothing – LUNA [the token] was burned to create UST. It was never intended to be backed up by anything other than the algorithm,” Ivanov explained. “The opposite is true of USDN. WAVES tokens are held in a smart contract to collateralize USDN.”
Algorithmic stablecoins are backed by a basket of tokens and rely on smart contracts and arbitrage mechanisms to hold their peg to a chosen currency, usually U.S. dollars. In USDN’s case, users must lock in WAVES in Neutrino's smart contracts to mint USDN, while USDN redemptions have the opposite effect of destroying the stablecoin to unlock WAVES supply.
Waves’ native USDN stablecoins fell to nearly 90 cents last week after a liquidity crisis caused the tokens to lose their intended peg with U.S. dollars, causing wider crypto market concerns.
Sasha Ivanov has previously raised these concerns. ""We have to work on the algorithm. And what happens now is kind of inevitable, which is just a test of the whole system,” he said on CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” program in June.
USDN's lost peg
The concerns resurfaced last week as USDN lost its peg, which concerned some analysts.
“Even though all purchases made with this token add to USDN backing, the move created a model similar to UST by relying on a secondary token to support the stablecoin's peg by providing liquidity,” Iakov Levin, CEO of crypto yield platform Midas, explained in a message to CoinDesk.
Levin further stated that market participants were likely removing liquidity from decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms ahead of the upcoming Ethereum Merge upgrade. “No one is keen on supporting the peg of another algorithmic stablecoin. This model potentially leads to dire consequences and extreme fragility of the peg,” he told CoinDesk in Telegram messages.
Ivanov, however, pinned last week’s USDN deppeging to Vires Finance, a lending platform built on Waves. The depeg has happened due to the repayment plan implemented by the community vote on Vires finance,” Ivanov said. “$1 million USDN is released daily in repayment to Vires depositors, and it seems that amount is too high to be sustainable for the peg of USDN.”
Vires previously faced scrutiny from market participants in April, when several Twitter handles accused the Waves team of manipulating the price of its native token through the platform. Ivanov dismissed the allegations at the time, accusing Alameda Research of manipulating waves prices and running a hostile media campaign to trigger a panic selling.
Meanwhile, the possibility of depegged stablecoins remains a worry among the crypto community, a part of which is plagued by fears of a UST-like repeat months after the Terra ecosystem crashed and wiped off some $28 billion in value from related applications.
12:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(8:30 a.m. UTC): Jibun Bank manufacturing PMI (August)
9:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:45 a.m. UTC): Caixin manufacturing PMI (August)
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): U.S. continuing jobs claims (August 19)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Has Bitcoin Hit a Floor? Blockchain Data and the Ethereum Merge
With Ethereum's long-awaited transition to proof-of-stake (PoS) fast approaching, blockchain analytics firm Coin Metrics is out with a new report explaining the move, along with data that provides some insights about user behavior. Lucas Nuzzi, Coin Metrics head of research and development, joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the findings. Glen Goodman, eToro crypto consultant, provided his bitcoin and crypto markets outlook. Also, Mythical Games CEO John Linden took a look at the state of the non-fungible token (NFT) market.
More Volatility Ahead for Bitcoin as Federal Reserve Keeps Quiet: BTC traders will have to be data dependent, just like the central bank.
Bitcoin Miners' Profitability May Narrow as Mining Difficulty Hits Second-Biggest Increase This Year: Bitcoin miners are stepping up production as the weather cools down, so the network automatically adjusted to increase the difficulty of mining a block.
A16z Wants to Standardize NFTs by Giving You a License for Your Token: Andreessen Horowitz's crypto arm is releasing a free licensing system, aiming to help the NFT sector fulfill its ""economic potential.""
Morgan Stanley Says Stablecoin Market Cap Is Contracting Again: The bank said it sees little evidence of leverage rebuilding in the decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem.
S. Korean City Busan Taps FTX to Develop Crypto Exchange, Promote Blockchain Businesses: Busan aims to develop a blockchain zone in the coming years and had also signed on crypto exchange Binance last week.
The Sex Club, Tokenized: Daniel Saynt’s Manhattan sex club has plans for NFT membership and its own NSFW token. This piece is part of CoinDesk's Sin Week.
Other voices: The Potential Role of Standards in Supporting the Growth of Distributed Ledger Technologies/Blockchain (Rand)
""What are 'non-crypto-based blockchains'"" (CoinDesk technology reporter Sam Kessler) ... ""NEW: Today, we’re suing Michael Saylor – a billionaire tech executive who has lived in the [District of Columbia] for more than a decade but has never paid any D.C. income taxes – for tax fraud."" (Washington, D.C., Attorney General Karl Racine)"
209,318,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/09/02/houses-stablecoin-bill-may-face-fatal-delays-for-2022-progress/,House’s Stablecoin Bill May Face Fatal Delays for 2022 Progress,"Internal plans to release a draft by this week were put off as the factions remain too far apart in negotiations, sources say.",2022-09-02,"One of Congress’ most serious efforts toward stablecoin oversight may have hit an insurmountable snag as negotiations in the House Financial Services Committee drag out further than the calendar is likely to allow.
A legislative push toward the crypto industry’s first significant set of U.S. regulations remains bogged down over negotiations between the panel’s Democratic chairwoman and its ranking Republican, despite initial plans that aimed to release a draft of the bill as early as this week, according to three people familiar with the talks. There have been a number of points to iron out, including such thorny topics as the role of state regulators, the possibility of a future digital dollar in the U.S. and the treatment of customer money held by crypto platforms.
While the negotiations are still going between Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), the timeline is tightening for getting a bill through Congress. At this stage – as lawmakers devote more and more attention to the November midterms and as the legislative session winds to a close – the effort is unlikely to make it through this year, the people said. Though there had been some discussion of a bill being marked up – or revised in preparation for a committee vote – by mid-September, it may slip until much later in this session, or not at all.
However, because the same lawmakers are likely to win their races in November, the effort could be picked up and dusted off by the new Congress next year.
Spokespeople for Waters and McHenry didn't respond to requests for comment.
""If it's true that the bill isn't moving to markup, we're glad committee leadership has decided not to move forward with what likely would have been a problematic proposal,” said Mark Hays, a policy analyst for Americans for Financial Reform, who advocates a “slower, more deliberate approach” and says there is already “a great deal regulators can do right now to address the risks posed by stablecoins to consumers and the market.”
The industry, however, has been calling for Congress to start establishing federal oversight over crypto. The absence of rules in stablecoins – digital tokens meant to maintain steady value by being tied to assets such as the U.S. dollar – was on wide display in May with the fatal plunge of terra-luna, which gave critical lawmakers something to focus on.
The Waters-McHenry bill had neared the finish line for a draft to be released weeks ago, before Congress’ summer break, but at least one last-minute request from the Treasury Department complicated the talks, a person familiar with that development had said. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen – concerned with so many crypto investors losing access to their money as firm after firm collapsed in recent months – had insisted that the legislation carry a provision to keep crypto customers’ money legally walled off from the assets of the companies they were dealing with.
When Waters announced in late July that an agreement was still out of reach and they would have to revisit the legislation after the recess, she had also said that she wanted the bill to direct the Federal Reserve to do more work toward a digital dollar – a controversial point. McHenry and other Republican lawmakers have asked for caution from the Fed on issuing a central bank digital currency (CBDC), insisting that the central bank ensures it’s worthwhile and allows a leading role for the private sector.
The sides are also trying to hash out what authorities state regulators should have as federal rules are established.
Now, as Congress prepares to get rolling again after Labor Day, the stablecoin work is one of several efforts trying to make a mark on crypto.
“It’s critical that we continue moving the ball forward on this so we can have a regulatory framework that protects consumers, while allowing for responsible innovation,” Waters had said in her statement weeks ago.
But since then, lawmakers have made progress on other fronts, too. The Senate Agriculture Committee is expected to devote time this month to a more comprehensive crypto bill introduced last month by Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and the panel’s ranking Republican, Sen. John Boozman (R-Ark.)."
210,316,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/03/theres-a-new-platform-for-bitcoin-backed-borrowing-and-its-courting-banks-to-lend/,There’s a New Platform for Bitcoin-Backed Borrowing and It’s Courting Banks to Lend,"Max Keidun, CEO of non-custodial bitcoin exchange Hold Hodl, is launching a decentralized platform for stablecoin and fiat loans with Casa, Blockstream, Bitfinex and others.",2022-09-03,"The collapse of big cryptocurrency lenders like Celsius Network and Voyager Digital this summer might have cooled the market, but Max Keidun says his new lending platform will be different – and has a shot at making banks love bitcoin (BTC).
“My dream is to get the banks to live by the bitcoin standard,” says Max Keidun, the CEO of peer-to-peer bitcoin exchange Hodl Hodl.
His new platform, Debifi, announced during the Baltic Honeybadger conference on Saturday, is scheduled to launch next year. It will allow users to borrow long-term loans in stablecoins and fiat using their bitcoin as collateral. Some banks have already shown interest in joining Debifi as lenders, Keidun said, refusing to name any.
“We already have liquidity providers, but fiat loans will be added half a year after the platform launches,” Keidun said, adding Debifi will take off some time in the first quarter of 2023.
The lenders, both of fiat and stablecoins, will all be institutions, Keidun said, and the fiat lenders will need to have appropriate licenses to join the platform.
“We will know them all, do our due diligence on them,” he said.
For now, two companies have agreed to work with the new platform to provide liquidity, Keidun said: centralized exchange Bitfinex, which is also a sister company of the largest stablecoin issuer Tether; and XBTO, a crypto financial company that is also providing bitcoin-backed fiat loans itself. Both are investors in Hodl Hodl, a non-custodial bitcoin exchange Keidun is running: Bitfinex invested an undisclosed amount in Hodl Hodl in July 2021 and XBTO participated in Hodl Hodl’s Series B funding round in October 2021.
Both companies confirmed their involvement with Keidun’s upcoming project. ""Bitfinex is excited to collaborate with Debifi and support a bitcoin-first institutional liquidity pool,” Bitfinex spokesperson told CoinDesk in an email.
There has been also support from the bitcoin-focused venture capital: according to Keidun, Ten31 fund invested in Debifi.
Keidun is no stranger to lending: In 2020, he launched a peer-to-peer lending marketplace called Lend, which allows users to lend and borrow stablecoins in an anonymous and non-custodial way. Just like Hodl Hodl, Lend uses multisignature escrows. When a deal is initiated, be it a bitcoin sale on Hodl Hodl or a bitcoin-backed loan on Lend, the user’s bitcoin gets locked in the multisig that requires two out of three keys to unlock it.
Each side of the deal (the buyer and the seller or the lender and the borrower) gets a key. The third one is controlled by Hodl Hodl or Lend. If there is a dispute between the parties, the company referees and the bitcoin is sent to the prevailing side. This way users don’t have to trust the platform with their bitcoin, which is not stored in a big central wallet, and also don’t have to verify their identities. The broad consensus in the crypto industry so far has been that non-custodial platforms are not considered money transmitting businesses.obliged and so are not obliged to do KYC (know-your-client) checks on their users.
Read more: Bitcoin Hodlers Get a Lending Option With No KYC
Debifi will work differently.
Unlike Hodl Hodl and Lend, on Debifi users will probably need to go through a KYC check for most of the loan offerings. However, it will be up to each lender and the personal information will be collected by lenders, not Debifi, Keidun said.
Debifi, for which Keidun is now assembling a different team, separate from those of Hodl Hodl and Lend, will also have a different design: instead of two-out-of-three multisigs, it will use three-out-of-four ones.
As Keidun explains, one additional key will belong to a fourth holder, which, together with Hodl Hodl, will ensure security of the funds. These fourth key holders, as Keidun calls them, will be one of the small pool of reputable bitcoin companies, including Casa Hodl, Blockstream and Jan3, a startup by Blockstream’s former chief strategy officer, Samson Mow. All three companies confirmed their involvement.
The addition of the fourth key is meant to strengthen the new platform’s security: if a scammer or a hacker wanted to abuse the protocol and steal money from escrow, they would have to compromise not just the platform’s key but also the one held by Casa, Blockstream or Jan3, Keidun explained.
The multisignature escrow for Debifi will be coded from scratch instead of using the existing code for Lend’s multisigs, Keidun said, adding: “It’s better to write a new thing than fix what you already have.” (Hodl Hodl and Lend will undergo some upgrading, too, he said.)
“Back when we launched our lending platform, some people criticized us, saying that the platform could collude with one of the sides of the deal, take the bitcoin out of escrow and scam the other party,” Keidun said. “And now, there is one more key. And the holders are big reputable companies. They won’t scam people.”
Other new features will be loans with expiration terms up to five years (Lend lets users open loan contracts for no longer than 12 months) and native integration of hardware wallets. Users will be able to create escrow wallets using their own hardware wallets, so that they would use a signature generated by their own device, not by the platform, as it is now for Hodl Hodl and Lend.
Unlike in 2018-2019, when cryptocurrency-backed lending was taking off and companies like BlockFi and Celsius were emerging and growing fast, 2022 would appear to be an inopportune time to start a business in this market. The collapse of Terra and LUNA, along with a general bearish trend and some reckless gambling by market participants, took down a whole bunch of multimillion-dollar companies, including Three Arrows Capital, Voyager and Celsius.
However, Debifi’s partners believe the crisis was a useful lesson, of which Debifi can take advantage.
“If you look at the recent spate of implosions with centralized lending platforms that are based on opaque relationships and unsecured loans, it's clear that the old system is fundamentally broken,” said Mow, Blockstream’s former chief strategy officer and founder of a bitcoin-focused startup Jan3.
The centralized crypto lenders, he added, didn't use blockchain technology to improve their businesses. “Debifi actually leverages real technology to deliver a better solution, and will make the entire ecosystem stronger and more respectable,” Mow said.
Nick Neuman, CEO of Casa, said the “hybrid custody” approach of Debifi, when there is no single third party in charge of users’ money, will give people more control over what is happening to their bitcoin than companies like BlockFi and Celsius did.
“What you need is transparency around the risks that you are taking. When customers are holding the keys for the collateral that they use, they can see on-chain where those funds are sitting and if those funds are being put at risk,” Neuman said.
And while with Debifi’s three-out-of-four multisig setup, funds can be moved out of the escrow without a user’s permission, as Keidun acknowledged, they are “not sitting in a massive custodian pool, where you don’t know what they’re doing,” Neuman said.
Adam Back, co-founder and CEO of Blockstream, said getting traditional banks on board would bring an “enormous pool of capital in conventional capital markets with relatively low interest rates” into the bitcoin ecosystem, which would lower the rates on the bitcoin lending market.
“The reason borrowing interest rates are high in the bitcoin ecosystem is that most of the capital at play is bitcoiner capital, and they tend to be heavily invested in BTC and short of USD, so as a borrower you are bidding against their alternative of buying bitcoin themselves,” Back said.
One motivation for Keidun with this new project was watching the explosive growth of non-bitcoin decentralized finance (DeFi) products, mostly on Ethereum, which, as a bitcoin maximalist, he considers an inferior system to say the least.
“I see that bitcoin lending is losing to the s**tcoin lending. If we want bitcoin to be the top asset, we need to compete with those projects,” he said.
The concept of Debifi will be clear and attractive for maximalists like Keidun himself, he said: No single entity has full control over the bitcoin collateral and there is no rehypothecation – meaning, the bitcoin in escrows is not used by the platform to earn additional yield.
“This solution will be easy to understand both for bitcoin maximalists and banks,” Keidun believes.
Debifi will work as a marketplace and will not provide any loans itself, Keidun said. It would offer a ready technology to the institutional crypto companies and traditional banks that are interested in working with bitcoin, so those banks won’t have to grapple with the new technology themselves.
“They will be talking directly to their bitcoiner clients and finally see what a great collateral asset bitcoin is. It’s 24/7, it’s transparent,” Keidun said.
According to him, a handful of banks from Europe, the U.S., Asia-Pacific and Caribbean regions have already shown interest in the platform. Keidun said that luring banks down the bitcoin rabbit hole will change the role of bitcoin in the financial system.
“Bitcoin has already shown itself as an unstoppable trading asset. My theory for bitcoin for the next 10 years is that it will become a loan asset, a kind of super collateral,” Keidun said.
This is a vision at least some prominent bitcoiners might share, like Samson Mow. “Non-custodial lending platforms for institutions will be the next big thing,” he said.
UPDATE: (Sept. 3, 2022, 16:50 UTC): Adds the information about Ten31 involvement."
211,317,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/06/three-arrows-capital-wallet-removes-33m-of-staked-ether-from-curve-pool/,Withdrawal of $33M in Staked Ether Was Not From Three Arrows Capital: Report,"The withdrawal was to a Matrixport wallet, not Three Arrows, as previously reported.",2022-09-06,"A wallet belonging to Matrixport, a crypto exchange based in the British Virgin Islands, has removed $33 million worth of staked ether (stETH) from the Curve pool, according to on-chain data. It was initially believed that the wallet belonged to insolvent hedge fund Three Arrows Capital.
CORRECTION (Sept. 7, 13:30UTC): This article previously reported the withdrawal as going to a Three Arrows Capital wallet.
“This wallet was labelled Three Arrows Capital (3AC) due to it receiving large amounts of crypto from another known 3AC wallet. After investigating further, we’ve confirmed it was a 3AC counterparty managing this wallet: Matrixport. We’ve updated the label to reflect this,"" Nansen told Blockworks.
The wallet also removed 200 bitcoins (BTC), $4 million in tether (USDT) and $4 million worth of wrapped ether (wETH) in liquidity from Convex, a platform that boosts rewards for Curve stakers and liquidity providers.
The wallet, which was previously tagged as belonging to Three Arrows Capital by Nansen, has been inactive for 10 days since it unwrapped $9 million worth of wrapped stETH. Nansen has since confirmed to Blockworks that the wallet was incorrectly tagged and that it belongs to Matrixport.
Three Arrows Capital was one of several firms that have crashed during this year's crypto bear market. It owes its creditors $2.8 billion, according to a court filing published in July by its liquidator Teneo, following a series of highly leveraged trades in relation to the Terra (LUNA) network, which collapsed in May.
New York-based Teneo secured an important court decision in Singapore on Aug. 24 that allows it to probe Three Arrow's local assets there. At the time, Teneo had control of at least $40 million of the firm's assets.
Three Arrows Capital didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Read more: From stETH to wETH to Gwei: Understanding the Different Shades of Ethereum
CORRECTION (Sept. 7, 13:30UTC): Changes headline, opening paragraph and reference to Three Arrows Capital throughout in relation to the origin of the wallet."
212,20,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/07/ether-cardano-lead-steep-crypto-slide-amid-dollar-strength/,"Ether, ADA Lead Steep Crypto Slide Amid Dollar Strength",Some analysts said impending monetary tightening could add to a global rout across major asset classes such as equities and crypto.,2022-09-07,"Cryptocurrencies snapped an almost weeklong run above resistance levels as a strengthening dollar sent global equity and currency markets into declines.
Ether (ETH) and Cardano's ADA have both dropped almost 9% in the past 24 hours, giving up a week's worth of gains to become the biggest decliners among major cryptocurrencies. Ether's slide came despite the activation of the Bellatrix upgrade – the Ethereum network's final ""hard fork"" before the Merge – on Tuesday.
Bitcoin (BTC) fell 5.5%, trading under $18,900 in early European hours. BNB and Solana’s SOL fell 5%; XRP dropped 4% and Polkadot’s DOT lost 7%. Futures tracking major tokens racked up $327 million in liquidations, while the total cryptocurrency market capitalization slid below $1 trillion for the first time since July.
Losses on meme coins dogecoin (DOGE) and shiba inu (SHIB) averaged 6%. Outside of the majors, Ethereum Classic’s ETC fell some 16% after a double-digit rally on Tuesday, with Terra’s old luna classic (LUNC) tokens seeing a 20% slide after more than doubling over the past week.
Concerns about aggressive U.S. Federal Reserve monetary tightening were heightened when the dollar climbed overnight, hitting a 24-year high against the Japanese yen and setting a lifetime peak against the Indian rupee. The S&P 500 lost 0.4% and the Nasdaq 100 0.7% on Tuesday as tech stocks slid.
In a note Wednesday, analysts at Arcane Research warned of increased volatility in the coming days after the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI) data for August is released on Sept. 13. Also, the European Central Bank will make its interest rate decision on Thursday. The ECB is forecast to hike rates by 75 basis points. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
“These macro events, combined with the Merge, might be catalysts for going forward,” the analysts said, adding traders remained bullish on ether ahead of the Ethereum blockchain's Merge event.
As for bitcoin, the Fed’s expected tightening presented a “bad outlook,” according to Chris Esparza, founder of decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol Vault Finance.
“Tightening generally reduces the printing of cash to prop up the economy as we had in the COVID-19 pandemic years,” Esparza said. Bitcoin investors must focus on the fundamentals of the asset instead of relying on macroeconomic market gauges, he told CoinDesk.
“With countries formulating functional regulations to guide the nascent ecosystem, the level of adoption is bound to grow in the long term, creating a positive stance for investors to stack up now.""
Read more: The Final Countdown to the Ethereum Merge Has Officially Begun"
213,223,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/09/07/us-bank-watchdog-says-hes-not-budging-on-crypto-distrust/,US Bank Watchdog Says He’s Not Budging on Crypto Distrust,"Michael Hsu, acting chief of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is sticking to his guns on keeping most crypto activity out of the U.S. banking system.",2022-09-07,"U.S. regulators have largely fenced off the banking system from heavy involvement in the crypto industry, and that’s a status that the acting head of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency intends to maintain.
Michael Hsu, the acting chief of the banking agency for most of President Joe Biden’s administration, is critical of crypto and had been quick to reverse course for the agency, which under previous management was the most welcoming corner of the federal government for digital assets.
The OCC – followed by the other banking regulators – established policies that insisted any lender has to ask permission before dipping a toe into any cryptocurrency activity, and they have to demonstrate that the activity will be totally safe.
Recent events have reinforced that position, he said Wednesday at a Clearing House and Bank Policy Institute conference – one of the largest annual events to discuss banking policy. Hsu cited the collapse of Terra and the LUNA token in May, which he said “sparked contagion across cryptocurrencies, resulting in several crypto platforms failing, forcing numerous exchanges to close, and driving large losses and reductions of staff at a number of publicly traded companies.”
“The federally regulated banking system, by contrast, has been largely unaffected,” he said. “I believe this is due, at least in part, to the careful and cautious approach that we adopted and intend to maintain for the foreseeable future.”
The OCC, Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are all involved in U.S. government discussions over how to address oversight of stablecoins, such as Tether’s USDT and Circle Internet Financial’s USDC. The tokens – designed for steady valuation by being tied to assets such as the dollar – are the object of ongoing legislative efforts, but the federal agencies are also considering how they might be dealt with as a financial stability concern."
214,7,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/08/crypto-terra-luna-classic-surges-as-traders-speculate-on-new-supply-burn-rule/,Crypto Terra Luna Classic Surges as Traders Speculate on New Supply Burn Rule,"In an attempt to revive the failed Terra blockchain’s token, the approved proposal will destroy 1.2% of every transaction to reduce supply.",2022-09-08,"Luna classic (LUNC), the renamed native token of the Terra blockchain that dramatically imploded in May, is rising in value as traders bet that a soon-to-be implemented rule may breathe some life into the much-maligned token.
LUNC gained 22% in the past 24 hours, and doubled its price in a week, according to data by crypto intelligence platform Messari. Still, the token is changing hands at a fraction of a cent ($0.00052 to be precise) and it is down more than 99.99% since the start of the year.
A “tax burn” regime that aims to reduce the token’s hyperinflated supply is likely fueling the rally.
The community approved a proposal that introduces a 1.2% tax rate on every transaction on the blockchain. According to the proposal, the “tax” will automatically be sent to a wallet to destroy (burn) the tokens to bring down gradually LUNC’s bloated circulating supply. The fee rate is expected to take effect on Sept. 20, according to a statement from Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume.
The rate cannot be enforced on trading the token on centralized exchanges, as a member of the Terra governance forum pointed out, but some exchanges such as MEXC will voluntarily adopt the fee.
Binance also announced Thursday that it will add LUNC trading against Tether's USDT to its trading pair list, starting Friday.
However, the price rise may prove to be short-lived as the new fee parameter is unlikely to attract new investors to the blockchain, according to Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda. “It still remains a tough period for crypto in general and investors still have a bad Terra taste in their mouth from the collapse earlier in the year,” he told CoinDesk.
Howard Greenberg, cryptocurrency educator at Prosper Trading Academy, said that “this is a total speculation play and basically turns LUNC into a meme coin at this point.”
“It will be a very volatile trade, and if someone chooses to enter the trade I would make sure you have an exit plan for both downside and upside.”
The Terra blockchain’s multibillion-dollar implosion in May was the epicenter of the current crypto crisis and led to the insolvency of multiple crypto lenders and investment firms. The network’s algorithmic stablecoin, terraUSD (formerly UST), lost its peg to the dollar, and sent LUNC (formerly LUNA), which was supposed to stabilize the stablecoin, into hyperinflation. The current supply of LUNC is nearly 7 trillion tokens, and even taking into account the new burn it won’t significantly change the coin’s fundamentals.
Most developers and investors have left the network. Those who decided to stay created a duplicate of the Terra blockchain as part of an attempt to have a fresh start for the ecosystem. The old blockchain still remained functional and was rebranded to Terra Classic, hosting the stablecoin USTC and its sister token LUNC.
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?"
215,16,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/09/terras-luna-token-gains-200-in-a-few-hours-amid-speculative-frenzy/,Terra’s LUNA Token Gains 200% in a Few Hours Amid Speculative Frenzy,The sudden rally of the revived Terra network’s token comes after a similar surge of the collapsed Terra Classic blockchain’s LUNC token.,2022-09-09,"LUNA, the cryptocurrency of the Terra blockchain’s recreated version after dramatically imploding earlier this year, tripled in price within a few hours time Friday, trading close to its all-time high set in early June when the token was introduced.
The token’s price skyrocketed to almost $7 from less than $2, according to data by cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko. At press time, LUNA was changing hands at around $6, up more than 212% in the past 24 hours with vastly higher trading volume seen during recent days.
LUNA is the native token of the second version of the Terra blockchain, brought back to life after Terra’s collapse in May, which wiped out $60 billion in value. The implosion led to investigations for fraud against Terraform Labs, the firm that created the blockchain, and its founder Do Kwon. The old blockchain was rebranded to Terra Classic, and hosts the luna classic (LUNC) token and its stablecoin USTC.
Risky assets such as cryptocurrencies appear to be rallying broadly Friday in a relief rally as multiple economic indicators signal a slowing global economy and traders are weighing the possibility that the Federal Reserve might slow down rate hikes sooner than expected or even cut interest rates next year.
The newly launched CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which tracks the price movement of a basket of 148 cryptocurrencies measuring the performance of the broader crypto market, is up 5.6% in the past 24 hours. Bitcoin (BTC) is leading the rally as it jumped to $21,000 from $19,000, marking its highest daily gain in six months.
Read more: Crypto’s S&P 500: CoinDesk Unveils Broad-Market, Digital-Asset Index
LUNC has also surged as traders got excited about a new burn scheme that would reduce the token’s hyperinflated supply, as CoinDesk reported Thursday. The rally has somewhat stalled since then, as the coin slid 17% in the past day.
Crypto market watchers are puzzled about LUNA’s wild price movement as there hasn’t been any news or development specific to the network that would ignite hype amid retail traders.
Data by digital asset social intelligence platform LunarCrush points to a retail speculative frenzy, as mentions and engagements on social media platforms have shot up recently.
So far, the new Terra blockchain struggled to attract investors to its ecosystem. The network’s total value locked (TVL) – an important metric in decentralized finance (DeFi) that measures how much value a protocol can accrue from investors – stood at a meager $51 million at press time, while the “old” Terra Classic blockchain’s TVL reached more than $20 billion in May before its collapse, according to DeFi data tracker DeFiLlama."
216,2,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/12/terras-luna-tumbles-more-than-30-making-u-turn-from-surge/,"Terra’s LUNA Tumbles More Than 30%, Making U-Turn From Surge",The price action in LUNA and LUNC tokens looks more like that of meme tokens such as DOGE and SHIB.,2022-09-12,"After skyrocketing last week, LUNA – the new token from the Terra blockchain that had spectacularly collapsed in May – made its way down to Earth, falling as much as 33% on Monday.
The token was trading around $4.20 as of press time. It had reached $7.60 on Friday, an all-time high since June.
The market capitalization fell to $542 million, cryptocurrency data aggregator CoinGecko shows.
The second version of LUNA was created after Terra lost $60 billion in value because of its May implosion. Authorities are in the process of investigating the affiliated Terraform Labs and co-founder Do Kwon for alleged fraud.
The original Terra chain was rebranded Terra Classic, and its native token – the former LUNA, now luna classic (LUNC) – has also dropped in price Monday after a surge last week. LUNC’s price was trading at $0.0003 as of 1:15 p.m. ET, down 17% in the past 24 hours, according to CoinGecko.
Howard Greenberg, cryptocurrency educator at Prosper Trading Academy, told CoinDesk last week the surge in LUNC's price made it look like ""a meme coin at this point.”"
217,302,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/12/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-holds-steady-above-21k-defi-platform-forwards-5m-funding-round-highlights-cryptos-growth-in-thailand-but-regulation-lags/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Holds Steady Above $21K; DeFi Platform Forward’s $5M Funding Round Highlights Crypto’s Growth in Thailand, but Regulation Lags","Two of Thailand’s largest banks participated in the round, but the country also faces a major obstacle keeping its best tech talent.",2022-09-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Thailand's interest in crypto is growing but regulation in the country is lagging.
Insights: Bitcoin held on to its sizable Friday gains to continue trading above $21K; ether held above $1,700.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
Bitcoin Remains Steady Above $21K
By James Rubin
Bitcoin held fast above its latest $21,000 threshold over the weekend as investors continued their hopeful wait for positive U.S. inflation data in the coming week.
The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization was recently trading at approximately $21,800, up about 1% and somewhat higher than where it began the weekend. BTC spiked more than 10% at one point on Friday amid market optimism that with prices starting to fall, the U.S. central bank would be able to ratchet back its current diet of robust interest rate increases and liquidity tightening next year.
While noting bitcoin's encouraging rebound from $18,500 earlier in the week, Joe DiPasquale, CEO of crypto asset manager BitBull Capital also said that such resurgences have not been unusual for cryptos during down markets. ""While bulls will welcome this bounce, it is important to note how continued bearish price action has intermittent relief rallies, especially as short position holders take profit,"" he said.
Ether recently sank about 1% but was still trading well above $1,700 level it regained late Thursday. Investors in the second largest crypto in market value await the Merge, the Ethereum blockchain's change from proof-of-work to a more energy-efficient proof-of-work protocol that is supposed to be completed over the next nine days. Most other major cryptos from the CoinDesk top 20 by market cap were slightly in the red, with UNI recently off more than 3% and popular meme coins DOGE and SHIB down over 2%.
Equities
The crypto price surge tracked stocks, which ended a three-week losing streak on Friday with the tech-focused Nasdaq closing up 2.1% and the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) rising 1.5% and 1.2%, respectively amid a lull in risk-off sentiment stemming from inflation optimism. The link between bitcoin (BTC) and equity prices, particularly tech stocks, is growing closer again.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics releases the latest Consumer Price Index (CPI) on Tuesday and economic observers widely expect another slight decline in inflation at least partly because of falling energy prices. The price of Brent crude oil, a widely watched measure of energy markets, is now hovering around $90 per barrel, down roughly 25% since topping $123 in early June. July's 8.5% CPI fell slightly from the previous month, although it remains near a four-decade high.
In remarks Friday, St. Louis Fed President Jim Bullard said he had become more supportive of a third straight 75 basis-point rate hike and that investors should not not underestimate the possibility of continued high rates in 2023.
In crypto news, Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin surprised attendees at the Kyiv Tech Summit on Friday to show support for war-torn Ukraine. And LUNA, the cryptocurrency of the Terra blockchain’s recreated version after dramatically imploding earlier this year, tripled in price within a few hours time Friday, trading close to its all-time high set in early June when the token was introduced. The token’s price skyrocketed to almost $7 from less than $2, according to data by cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko, although it was more recently trading under $6.
BitBull's DiPasquale said he was ""skeptical of a continued rally from here on in the absence of fundamental macroeconomic improvements,"" and that the upcoming Ethereum Merge and meeting later this month by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to decide on the size of the interest rate increase ""remain key events to watch.""
Thai Interest in Crypto Grows, but Regulation Lags
By Sam Reynolds
Forward, a Thailand-based decentralized finance (DeFi) project building a decentralized derivatives exchange, just closed a $5 million funding round.
And this isn’t any old round: Venture arms of two of the nation’s biggest banks participated.
Kasikornbank bank and Bank of Ayudhya both put in an undisclosed amount. Udomsak Rakwongwan, Forward’s co-founder, notes that this is the first time two regulated banks have invested directly in DeFi because they want to digitize and transform banking.
But while Thai banks need to operate in a heavily regulated environment – a product of the 1997 financial crisis – there just isn’t a clear regulatory environment for crypto.
Rakwongwan notes that Forward, despite being a Thai project, is incorporated in Singapore because of regulatory clarity there.
Siam Commercial Bank, another large bank in the country, has a blockchain venture fund and is “opening the gate for future regulation,” given its measured approach and positive relationship with regulators, Rakwongwan said. SCB recently dropped out of a deal to buy a majority of local exchange BitKub, on the advice of regulators.
Rakwongwan told CoinDesk that it has been in contact with the Thai SEC, with a meeting scheduled soon, and so far the reception his project has gotten has been positive.
But progress is slow. Meanwhile, the country is suffering from a brain drain. A low cost of living locally means that salary expectations are low, and Thai talent is competitive overseas. Web3’s remote-first work environment means collaboration happens without borders.
“I believe that there is hope for Thailand to become a center of innovation and technology. We have investors who are ready to support new talent,” said Chanon Charatsuttikul, another co-founder.
A $5 million round goes a long way in Thailand, Rakwongwan added. But there won’t be too many rounds like that invested in Thai companies until the regulation becomes clearer.
Future Proof Festival (Huntington Beach, Calif.)
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): U.K. Industrial production (July/MoM/YoY)
2 p.m. HKT/SGT(6 a.m. UTC): U.K. manufacturing production (July/MoM/YoY)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Changes Course, Leading Crypto Markets Higher; Ethereum Co-Founder on the Merge
With the Ethereum Merge just days away, Anthony Di lorio, one of the blockchain's founders, reflected on this historic upgrade. Also, CoinDesk announced the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) family of Indices. Managing Director Jodie Gunzberg explained this unique and important tool for the crypto industry. Plus, Patrick Hillmann of Binance discussed the exchange's controversial stablecoin decision.
Vitalik Buterin Makes Surprise Appearance at Kyiv Tech Summit in Show of Support for Ukraine: The Ethereum co-founder, who was born in Russia, made time for the visit as his Ethereum blockchain is days away from the major overhaul known as the Merge.
MicroStrategy Files to Sell Up to $500M of Stock to Fund Bitcoin Purchases: The deal is a sign Executive Chairman Michael Saylor isn't backing off his audacious plan to turn his software developer into a bitcoin proxy.
‘Wall Street’ Doesn’t Need Bitcoin; Bitcoin Doesn’t Need ‘Wall Street’: ... Or any other institutions for that matter.
After Big Rally Past $21K, Bitcoin’s Price Momentum May Not Last: Bitcoin’s price gain was the biggest in six months, leading a broad-market rally in cryptocurrencies that pushed the industry’s market capitalization back over $1 trillion."
218,18,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/12/analysts-warn-of-headwinds-as-cryptos-gain-ahead-of-cpi-data-luna-classic-pares-rally/,"Analysts Warn of Headwinds as Cryptos Gain Ahead of CPI Data, Luna Classic Pares Rally","U.S. inflation data for August will be released Tuesday, and some economists expect it to show that price growth slowed for a second straight month.",2022-09-12,"Major cryptocurrencies inched higher over the weekend and Asian and European equity markets rose Monday as investors wait for Tuesday's U.S. inflation report.
Some economists expect the data to show inflation slowed for a second straight month in August, figures that might influence the Federal Reserve to turn less hawkish in its outlook.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 stock index gained as much as 1.69% Monday, the Stoxx Europe 600 rose 0.83%, and Germany’s DAX added 1.57%. The euro jumped to a more than three-week peak against the dollar as European Central Bank officials pushed for further aggressive monetary tightening.
Two months of falling gasoline prices – down 8% in July and 13% in August – could fuel another year-on-year decline in the consumer price index report, economists at crypto fund GlobalBlock said in an email to CoinDesk.
In the past 24 hours, bitcoin (BTC) has gained 3% to more than $22,000, adding to its 13% rally last week. It dropped to as low as $18,700 last week. Ether (ETH) traded at just under $1,800, while solana (SOL) and BNB tokens added 5%.
Near Protocol (NEAR) tokens also rose as code overseer Near Foundation announced a $100 million ecosystem fund on Monday. Elsewhere, luna classic (LUNC) lost 20% during the same time period as the hype around a recent fundamental catalyst cooled.
Analysts at trading firm Exness said in a Monday note that while bitcoin benefited from the fall in the dollar value as investors moved toward riskier assets, the asset could see a “new round of price corrections” if the U.S. inflation data turns out to be worse than forecast.
The analysts, however, say they expect ether to outperform bitcoin in the coming weeks if the Ethereum's Merge software update goes as planned. Peers such as cardano (ADA) and solana could also see some selling pressure from ether’s progress, they said.
Matt Senter, a co-founder of bitcoin rewards app Lolli, told CoinDesk that bitcoin’s 10% recovery from last week's nadir, which was its lowest level since mid-June, reflected the leading cryptocurrency's resilience amid adverse market conditions.
“While bitcoin’s recent price movements have made headlines, it has remained relatively stable and strong this summer, trading consistently within a band of $18,00-$24,000,” Senter said. “While bitcoin is down by more than 50% from its all-time high, it continues to perform strongly compared to more than a third of the top 100 cryptocurrencies, which are down by roughly 90% from their respective all-time highs.”
Headwinds for bitcoin’s continued recovery remain, however, he said.
“September has historically been a bleak period for bitcoin’s price; during the same five-year period, bitcoin has averaged an 8.5% drop in September,” Senter said, cautioning that the Fed’s projections of persistent inflation and further rate increases could cause the “hyper-sensitive” crypto and equity markets to see price fluctuations."
219,25,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/12/first-mover-americas-countdowns-on-for-ethereum-merge-but-price-is-slipping-versus-bitcoin/,"First Mover Americas: Countdown's On for Ethereum Merge, but Price Is Slipping Versus Bitcoin","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Sept. 12, 2022.",2022-09-12,"Price Point: The clock is ticking toward Ethereum's shift to a more energy-efficient system, known as the Merge. The landmark transition is now expected to occur on Wednesday, but the price of the ether was lower Monday. Bitcoin, by contrast, rose above $22,000, its highest price since mid-August.
Market Moves: There's a lot of hoopla surrounding the Ethereum Merge. But the price of ether can't seem to break away from bitcoin, Omkar Godbole reports. The ratio between the two prices has topped out around 0.08 multiple times since May 2018.
Chart of the Day: Historically, during monetary-policy cycles, prices for risky assets haven't rallied until after the Federal Reserve's first cut.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
It’s a big week for the crypto industry as digital-asset traders await the Ethereum blockchain’s landmark Merge expected later this week – a potentially historic shift to a “proof-of-stake” system that’s supposed to be 99% more energy efficient than the current “proof-of-work” system that Bitcoin uses.
Key questions include whether the new technology will work as intended and also what the impact might be from a potential revolt or “fork” by crypto miners who have their livelihoods and equipment invested in proof-of-work. It’s such a big deal that Google has added a countdown clock. (That suggests the switchover – a function of the speed and timing of the current blockchain – will happen on Wednesday.)
“You are going to see a lot of people coming out of the woodwork and trying to do something around this major event that is happening now in order for them to capitalize somehow and push an agenda or push a particular fork that comes out of this,” Anthony Di Iorio, one of Ethereum’s co-founders, told CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” on Friday.
The price of ether (ETH), the Ethereum blockchain’s native cryptocurrency, was down 0.9% over the past 24 hours to $1,755.
Bitcoin (BTC), for its part, could be due for fresh price volatility as the U.S. government releases its monthly consumer price index, a key gauge of inflation, on Tuesday. The report is expected to show the rate of price increases in August slowed from July’s elevated rate, reflecting softness in the prices for gasoline, airfares, hotels and used cars, though food prices were higher.
As reported on Friday by Jocelyn Yang, bitcoin has recently been trading more closely in sync with the Standard & Poor’s 500 index of large U.S. stocks. The largest cryptocurrency was up 3.1% over the past 24 hours to about $22,311, its highest price since Aug. 19.
CoinDesk Market Index
The CoinDesk Market Index, a broad composite of 148 digital assets unveiled last week, was up 1.2%, led by Ribbon Finance’s RBN token and Solana’s SOL. Losers included two of last week’s biggest pumpers, Terra’s LUNA and the retired-but-still-trading luna classic, or LUNC.
Near Protocol (NEAR) tokens also rose as First Mover lead writer Lyllah Ledesma broke the news that code overseer Near Foundation announced a $100 million ecosystem fund on Monday.
In traditional markets, U.S. stock futures were higher, and the U.S. dollar index fell for a second day. The speculation is that a slowdown in inflation would relieve pressure prices for risky assets, because central banks might be able to ease up their aggressive campaigns to tighten monetary policy.
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements.
Ether Lags Bitcoin As Ethereum Merge Nears. Here's Why
By Omkar Godbole
With the U.S. dollar restrained and the Ethereum blockchain's software upgrade known as the Merge almost here, stars seem to be aligned in favor of ether (ETH). And yet, the native token of Ethereum has been underperforming bitcoin (BTC) since Friday.
While bitcoin has rallied 15% to $22,300 since Friday, ether has lagged, gaining just 7% to $1,750, according to CoinDesk data.
Ether's underperformance stems from traders rotating money out of ETH and into BTC, some observers told CoinDesk. In contrast, others blamed caution ahead of the Merge and increased interest in buying the staked ether (stETH) token.
ETH/BTC triggers rotation of money out of ETH
""With the ETH/BTC ratio trading back to previous highs, some have started to unwind their long ETH/short BTC trade, and this has caused a +10% rally in BTC. Beta adjusted, bitcoin has outperformed ether during the last week,"" Markus Thielen, chief investment officer at British Virgin Islands-based IDEG Asset Management, said in an email.
The ETH/BTC ratio topped 0.085 on Sept. 7, which was its highest level since December, amounting to a 73% rally from July lows, as traders piled into ether ahead of the long-awaited Merge.
The momentum has weakened since then, however, perhaps with traders lightening their ETH long and BTC short positions. That typically happens when an asset runs into key resistance after a strong rally. The level of 0.08 has capped the upside multiple times since May 2018.
Lewis Harland, a researcher at Decentral Park Capital, made a similar observation, citing a rebound in bitcoin's dominance rate from long-held support as a catalyst for the movement of money out of ETH and into BTC.
""With bitcoin dominance at 39% and its chart showing a bullish RSI divergence, traders seem to be moving money from BTC to ETH,"" Harland said, referring to the relative strength index. ""Thirty-nine percent has been the BTC dominance floor since 2021.""
Read the full story here.
Risk Assets Likely to Bottom After First Fed Rate Cut, Past Data Shows
By Omkar Godbole
Bitcoin jumped nearly 10% last week, registering its best performance since March.
But it may be too early to say the cryptocurrency has bottomed out, as historically, U.S. equity markets have turned higher after the first Fed rate cut.
Bitcoin tends to move in line with stocks.
Strategists at ING expect the Fed to cut rates in June 2023.
Bank of America Says the Ethereum Blockchain’s Upgrade May Lead to Greater Institutional Adoption of Ether: Investors who are barred from buying tokens that run on proof-of-work systems may be able to buy ether after the blockchain switches to proof-of-stake, the bank said.
Digital Asset-Focused Bank Protego Trust Names Ron Totaro as CEO: Protego added Bitfury’s CEO to its board of directors in February.
Ethereum’s Transition to PoS Could Push PoW By The ‘Wayside’, Ethereum Co-founder Says: Anthony Di lorio, one of Ethereum’s founders, highlighted the time and effort that the Ethereum Foundation has invested in the change.
Analysts Warn of Headwinds as Cryptos Gain Ahead of CPI Data; Luna Classic Pares Rally: U.S. inflation data for August will be released Tuesday, and some economists expect it to show that price growth slowed for a second straight month."
220,19,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/13/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-has-not-bottomed-out-data-suggests-ether-and-other-altcoins-fall-in-monday-trading/,"First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Has Not Bottomed Out, Data Suggests; Ether and Other Altcoins Fall in Monday Trading","A recent report from South Korea-based CryptoQuant outlines a number of price valuation metrics that show bitcoin sinking to as low as $14,500 to $10,000.",2022-09-13,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin rises but ether falls in Monday trading.
Insights: Bitcoin may not have reached its lowest point, data from two research firms suggests.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
●Bitcoin (BTC): $22,176 +1.9%
●Ether (ETH): $1,698 −2.4%
●S&P 500 daily close: 4,110.41 +1.1%
●Gold: $1,732 per troy ounce +0.9%
●Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.36% +0.04
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Take Different Paths in Monday Trading
By James Rubin
Monday trading offered a tale of two cryptos.
Bitcoin rose but ether fell a day before the release of the latest U.S. inflation reading and three days before the launch of the Merge.
BTC was recently trading at about $22,200, up almost 2% over the past 24 hours. The largest cryptocurrency by market value soared past $22,000 early Monday as investors' appetites for riskier investments returned.
Ether recently plunged over 2% from the previous day to trade just below $1,700 after rising over this threshold late Sunday. Investors continue to eye Thursday's expected Merge, the technological overhaul of the Ethereum blockchain that will shift its protocol from proof-of-work to more energy efficient proof-of-stake.
In an email, Oanda Senior Market Analyst Edward Moya attributed the two cryptos' differing paths to some traders' ""sell the event"" reaction. ""It looks like some of the profit-taking with Ethereum is benefitting Bitcoin and other blockchain crypto bets such as Cardano, Solana and Polkadot,"" Moya said.
Moya added optimistically, ""Many are still skeptical of a September crypto rebound, but if price action does not turn south here momentum traders could trigger a decent move higher.""
Most other major cryptos were recently in the red, with ADA and CRO both off more than 3% over the past 24 hours but SOL rising over 3%.
Cryptos' earlier gains tracked equity markets, which continued a mini winning streak with the tech-heavy Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average all climbing more than a percentage point. Investors have been feeling more upbeat about the prospect of a positive Consumer Price Index (CPI) on Tuesday showing inflation's momentum continuing to wane. Consensus expectations are for a CPI equal to or lower than July's 8.5% figure. Other indicators, including job figures, have remained strong, suggesting the economy will achieve the U.S. central bank's hoped-for soft landing. Asset markets may also be responding positively to Ukraine's successful counteroffensive in its war with Russia and the prospect of diminishing macroeconomic activity.
""The start of the trading week was supposed to be all about the August inflation report, but Kyiv’s sudden momentum has many hoping that this moment is a turning point with the war against Russia,"" Moya wrote, refewrring to the Ukraine capital. But he added that ""Russia’s strategy may now shift to attacking civilian infrastructure, which could lead to widespread blackouts and slow the current counteroffensive moves.""
In crypto news, financial services giant Fidelity is contemplating whether to let individual brokerage customers trade bitcoin (BTC), The Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the situation. The initiative would offer the latest evidence of traditional financial services firms' growing interest in the crypto space.
Earlier in the day, crypto exchange Huobi said that it would delist seven tokens, including monero and zcash.
In an interview on CoinDesk's ""First Mover"" TV program, Lex Sokolin, head economist of decentralized protocols at software company ConsenSys, said that cryptocurrencies respond to external events similar to other riskier assets. ""The story about the macroeconomic environment is, if it allows consumers to have a larger budget – and certainly the COVID-19 environment was that – they're more likely to take risks, they're more likely to use Web3 and try new protocols,"" he said. ""And if they're compressed, and they're much more worried about paying down their mortgages or their rents, they're going to have less discretionary budget. And so that's going to be damaging for crypto prices in the short term.""
Bitcoin Could Be Headed Down Again
By Sam Reynolds
The price of bitcoin is fickle. One day it's a risk asset, and the next day a hedge against inflation.
A surge Monday sent bitcoin over $22,000 for the first time in more than three weeks after the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization spent the past three days comfortably above $21,000.
But a recent report from South Korea-based CryptoQuant outlines a number of different price valuation metrics that show bitcoin bottoming out between $10,000 and $14,500.
The Delta price metric is at the high end of CryptoQuant’s bearish model. The delta price measures the difference between the realized – the average price at which all bitcoin in existence has moved – and the historical moving average price. CryptoQuant puts the delta price at $14,478.
“Historically, the market has confirmed reaching a bottom when the price has touched the delta price, as in the 2015 and 2018 bear markets,” CryptoQuant writes.
CryptoQuant also points to valuation models based on exchange flow as possible indicators of where bitcoin will bottom out.
One of them, developed by CryptoQuant’s research team, is the Whale Exchange Inflow Price. This metric, which it says signaled the bottom in 2013 and 2018, measures the price at which bitcoin whales (those that hold between 1,000-10,000 bitcoins) have sent bitcoin to exchanges. Currently, CryptoQuant puts this number at $10,335.
Finally, there’s also the Miner Exchange Inflow Price, which comes in at $14,214 (very close to the delta price). As the name implies, it's the price at which miners send bitcoin to exchanges. Cryptoquant says this metric signaled the bottom of the Covid-19-induced panic sell of March 2020 as well as the bottom of the 2015 bear market.
An old tale
In late 2020, Cointelegraph compiled a list of some of the worst bitcoin price predictions. Sure, there were many guesstimates from information-light influencers, but there were also serious attempts to create predictive models.
Nexo co-founder Antoni Trenchev predicted that bitcoin would end 2020 at $50,000 because of its lack of correlation with equities markets and moves in tandem with the price of gold.
Ross Ulbricht, the founder of the Silk Road darknet market, said that the volatility of March 2020 meant there would be a prolonged bear market throughout the year.
Twitter analyst CryptoWhale’s ""quantum model,"" which “effectively predicted every major move since 2018,” posited a bull run post-March 2020 that would hit $24,000 by mid-2022.
Ironically, the best predictor of the bitcoin price is now the stock market. The correlation narrative to equities, ironic as that might be for bitcoin’s maximalist followers, is something that the world’s largest digital asset can’t shake until there are major macroeconomic changes.
Bitcoin price prediction isn’t anything new, but so far there just hasn’t been a reliable model or method to do it. At the start of this year, analysts were calling for bitcoin to remain in the $40K-$60K band citing macroeconomic factors.
“We predict the catalyst for this move to be stubbornly high inflation numbers coupled with a continuation of negative real interest rates,” Gavin Smith, CEO of Panxora, told CoinDesk in January.
High inflation numbers are certainly with us, but $40k bitcoin is not. As bitcoin opened the Asia Tuesday trading day at about $22,100, we’ve got a long way to go – despite some macro indicators saying we should be elsewhere.
Future Proof Festival (Huntington Beach, Calif.)
Nearcon (Lisbon)
8:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 p.m. UTC): Consumer Price Index (August/MoM)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Ethereum Merge Countdown; Push for Bitcoin ETF Intensifies
Bitcoin was holding firmly above $22,000 as key U.S. inflation data is set to be released Tuesday and the Ethereum Merge is looming. Plus, a closer look at why the Chamber of Digital Commerce is calling out the Securities and Exchange Commission over spot-based bitcoin ETFs.
Suggestions That Bitcoin Halving Might Come Sooner Are Mostly Wrong: Bitcoin’s hashrate is reaching all-time highs, and it’s causing confusion about “the halvening” on Twitter.
Terra’s LUNA Tumbles More Than 30%, Making U-Turn From Surge: The price action in LUNA and LUNC tokens looks more like that of meme tokens such as DOGE and SHIB.
Crypto Exchange Huobi to Delist 7 Privacy Coins, Including Zcash, Monero: The company said it is complying with regulations in different countries and regions.
Ether May ‘Inevitably’ Turn Into a Store of Value After Ethereum’s Merge, Consensys Economist Says: Lex Sokolin, head economist of decentralized protocols at ConsenSys, joined CoinDesk TV’s “First Mover” to discuss why ether could be seen as a store of value as regular and institutional users stake their tokens on the network.
Algorand Boosters Push Back on Helium’s Proposed Move to Solana: Decentralized Wi-Fi network Helium Network has proposed moving to the Solana blockchain. But a Solana competitor has another idea in mind."
221,21,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/14/steep-drop-in-bitcoin-ether-causes-over-250m-in-futures-losses/,"Steep Drops in Bitcoin, Ether Cause Over $250M in Futures Losses","BTC fell 9% in the past 24 hours, the most among major cryptocurrencies, while ETH dropped 6%, CoinDesk data shows.",2022-09-14,"Bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) both fell below their recent support levels in the past 24 hours in moves that caused over $250 million in liquidations, according to data from Coinglass. The crypto markets followed a drop in U.S. equities after the release of higher-than-expected inflation readings for August.
Futures tracking bitcoin lost upward of $130 million, while ether futures lost $125 million. Ethereum classic (ETC) futures saw over $10 million in losses – an unusual figure for the asset – amid recent trading interest in the tokens.
Bitcoin fell 9% in the past 24 hours, the most among major cryptocurrencies, while ether dropped 6%, CoinDesk data shows. Ether dropped to as low as $1,560 during late U.S. hours on Tuesday, before recovering to as much as $1,622 during Asian morning hours on Wednesday.
The sudden drop on Tuesday night was prompted by traders reacting to higher-than-expected consumer price index numbers.
Elsewhere, XRP dropped 8%, solana’s SOL fell 7%, and cardano’s ADA declined 7.5%. Outside of major cryptocurrencies, cosmos’s ATOM fell 11%, ApeCoin’s APE dropped 12%, and luna classic (LUNC) dropped 14%, continuing slides from earlier this week.
Data suggests part of the price volatility on ether futures came as funding rates surged to yearly highs of nearly 0.15%, as analytics firm Coinalyze noted on Twitter.
Funding rates are periodic payments made by traders based on the difference between prices in the futures and spot markets. Depending on their open positions, traders will either pay or receive funding.
The payments ensure there are always participants on both sides of the trade. Participants use sophisticated strategies to collect funding rates while hedging losses due to price movements – which creates market dynamics that contribute to price volatility.
Meanwhile, some markets analysts told CoinDesk that bitcoin is losing its appeal as a potential “inflation hedge.""
“In countries where currency depreciation has been greatest, such as Japan, where the dollar to the yen has gained more than 20% since the beginning of the year, bitcoin has lost 35% of its value,” currency trader Daniel Kostecki of investment company Conotoxia said in a Telegram message.
“Against the Korean won, the dollar has appreciated 15% since the beginning of the year, while the BTC/KRW exchange rate has fallen more than 40% in that time,” Kostecki remarked, adding that “even gold was not been able to counter current inflationary trends.”"
222,303,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/14/first-mover-americas-ethereum-merge-spawns-watch-parties-but-jail-kwon-token-gets-more-hype/,"First Mover Americas: Ethereum Merge Spawns Watch Parties, But 'Jail Kwon' Token Gets More Hype","The latest price moves in crypto markets in context for Sept. 14, 2022.",2022-09-14,"Price Point: The approach of the Ethereum Merge has lots of crypto types planning watch parties, but it looks like traders are betting on price declines. Bitcoin stabilized quickly Wednesday after its steepest price drop since mid-August on Tuesday, while yields on U.S. Treasury inflation-protected securities hit their highest level since 2018.
Market Moves: The ""jail kwon"" token represents the epitome of crypto-market ridiculousness. The price soared nearly 40-fold after a South Korean court issued an arrest warrant for the founder of Terraform Labs.
Chart of the Day: Trading volume in ether is soaring as the Merge speculation intensifies.
This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in your inbox every day.
By Omkar Godbole and Bradley Keoun
The Ethereum blockchain's Merge – its shift to a more energy-efficient ""proof-of-stake"" network, seen by many analysts and developers as a historic milestone for the growing industry – is almost here. Crypto types are throwing watch parties.
According to ethernodes.org, the Merge is now about 17 hours away. CoinDesk's Sam Kessler and Sage D. Young just published a cheat sheet on how to monitor the Merge as it unfolds.
CoinDesk Special Coverage: The Ethereum Merge
In the meantime, crypto markets appeared to have somewhat stabilized following the biggest sell-off since mid-August. Bitcoin fell 9.9% on Tuesday after a hotter-than-expected U.S. consumer price index report on inflation rekindled expectations that the Federal Reserve will be hawkish for a longer period of time than previously thought. The CoinDesk Market Index was up slightly on Wednesday.
At press time, bitcoin (BTC) was holding above $20,000. Ether (ETH), the native token of the Ethereum blockchain, gained 1% to $1,590 as funding rates in the perpetual futures market went further into negative territory – an indicator that more traders are betting the price will drop.
The path of least resistance for the crypto market appeared to be on the downside, with real or inflation-adjusted bond yields rallying. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury inflation-protected securities, which are adjusted periodically to compensate for consumer-price increases, rose above 1%, the highest since 2018:
Sector classifications are provided via the Digital Asset Classification Standard (DACS), developed by CoinDesk Indices to provide a reliable, comprehensive and standardized classification system for digital assets. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) is a broad-based index designed to measure the market capitalization weighted performance of the digital asset market subject to minimum trading and exchange eligibility requirements.
'Jail Kwon' Token Surges 387% After Terra Founder's Arrest
By Omkar Godbole
The crypto-markets spectacle of the day came from nearly 40-fold price rally in a meme coin named after Do Kwon, founder of the now-defunct Terraform Labs.
The recently launched jail kwon (jkwon) token, the self-proclaimed home of the world's first educate-to-earn program, rose 387% to $0.000908, according to the crypto data and analysis firm Messari.
The price surge came after a South Korean court issued an arrest warrant for Kwon, the primary developer of Terra's UST stablecoin, which crashed in May, destroying billions of dollars' worth of investor wealth.
""An arrest warrant has been issued for a total of six people, including Do Kwon, who are currently residing in Singapore,"" a spokesperson for the South Korean prosecutors said on Wednesday.
According to Bloomberg, the individuals have been accused of violating South Korea's Capital Markets Act.
The jail kwon token went live on BNB Chain early this month and is listed on decentralized exchange PancakeSwap under the ticker JKWON.
The token’s white paper says the project's mission is to combine Web3 with Web2 to deliver something unique to the crypto market and ""leverage the social media relevance and presence of Do Kwon and the Luna crash along with our Educate-to-Earn protocol to drive the awareness of the token.""
The white paper adds that educating the community on crypto safety as the core fundamental of the token and Kwon's infamy would ensure a lifetime of ""free marketing and spontaneous pumps.""
While the jkwon token rallied, Terra's luna and luna classic tokens plunged as investors withdrew millions from the Terra-based decentralized-finance ecosystem.
Read the full story here.
Ether Futures Volume Hits 3-Month High
By Omkar Godbole
The aggregate daily volume rose to $61 billion on Tuesday, the highest since June 13, according to data tracked by Skew.
Traders have been taking short positions in a bid to profit from or hedge against volatility that might stem from Ethereum’s impending upgrade, dubbed the Merge.
DeFi Lender Compound Takes Bite of Institutional Crypto Loans Pie: Compound will take bitcoin as collateral against stablecoin loans made by institutions.
Ethereum's Biggest Mining Pool to Stop Offering Services for the Network: Ethermine will make the move once the Merge is completed, which is expected to occur on Thursday.
Binance CEO Zhao Says EU's Proposed Crypto Rules Are Fantastic, but Strict: Speaking at Binance Blockchain Week Paris, Changpeng Zhao also said the French city is probably ""the financial hub for crypto"" in Europe and a larger part of the world.
Russian Millionaire’s Startup Plans Ruble Stablecoin Following DAI Model: The firm founded by Russian ex-banker Alexander Lebedev plans to introduce the coin on the Ethereum blockchain."
223,93,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/14/s-korean-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-terra-co-founder-do-kwon-report/,South Korean Court Issues Arrest Warrant for Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon,"The warrant also includes five others, according to a report.",2022-09-14,"A South Korean court has issued an arrest warrant against Do Kwon, the co-founder of the now defunct stablecoin issuer Terraform Labs, according to the financial crimes unit of the Supreme Prosecutors' Office.
The warrant included five additional individuals, Bloomberg News reported, citing a text message from the prosecutors' office. They are charged with violating the Capital Markets Act, the report said.
The warrant comes four months after the collapse of the $40 billion Terra ecosystem and its algorithmic stablecoin (UST), which was the first domino to fall in this year's crypto winter.
The contagion that followed caused an industry-wide fallout, with crypto lender Celsius Network and crypto broker Voyager Digital filing for bankruptcy as the value of digital assets slumped by more than 50% from their highs.
Singapore-based hedge fund Three Arrows Capital was another firm that filed for bankruptcy after the extent of its exposure to the Terra network was exposed. The implosion of Three Arrows left a trail of troubled loans across the crypto industry, with billions being owed to creditors.
In his first public interview last month, Kwon had maintained that he is cooperating with authorities.
Terra didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Kwon also reiterated his commitment to the Terra ecosystem and its re-launched terra token (LUNA). The token has slumped by 16.7% over the past hour.
UPDATE (Sept. 14, 06:21 UTC): Add details of LUNA token price.
UPDATE (Sept. 14, 07:08 UTC): Add context throughout and sourcing from Financial Crimes Unit of the Supreme Prosecutors Office."
224,299,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/09/14/judge-approves-independent-examiner-in-celsius-bankruptcy-case/,Judge Approves Use of Independent Examiner in Crypto Lender Celsius' Bankruptcy Case,"The examiner will be appointed by the U.S. Trustee's office, a Department of Justice entity tasked with monitoring bankruptcies.",2022-09-14,"A federal judge has granted a motion for the U.S. Trustee's office to appoint an independent examiner to investigate crypto lender Celsius Network’s financial management that led the firm to file for bankruptcy earlier this summer.
U.S. bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn ruled on Wednesday that the scope of the independent examiner would include an examination of several areas, including Celsius' crypto holdings, why there was a change in account offerings from the Earn Program to the Custody Service for some customers while others were placed in a “Withhold Account,” Celsius' procedures for paying various taxes and the current status of the utility obligations of Celsius’ mining business.
Celsius has laid out a proposal by which a still-being-built mining enterprise will allow it to generate enough revenue to continue operating.
Last week, Celsius and a group of its creditors agreed that an independent government examiner should investigate the firm as it moves through its bankruptcy proceedings. In August, the U.S. Trustee’s office, a Department of Justice entity tasked with monitoring bankruptcies, filed to appoint an independent examiner to investigate the company, saying its leadership had not been transparent about the actual financials.
Read more: FTC Moves to Join Crypto Lender Celsius’ Bankruptcy Case
While some of Celsius' borrowers opposed the move, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors and attorneys for Celsius said in separate filings that they had agreed to the appointment, so long as the examiner's scope was narrowed to limit the cost and time of the investigation. The U.S. Trustee's office agreed to these limitations as well, the committee's filing said.
According to the judge's ruling on Wednesday, once an examiner is approved, he or she will have seven business days to propose a work plan and a budget. The court will then have seven days to approve the plan and budget, and the examiner will then have 60 days to file their report.
Celsius initiated bankruptcy proceedings earlier this summer after freezing users withdrawals on its platform in June due to “extreme market conditions.” Trouble began for the firm when spooked retail investors rushed to withdraw their assets from Celsius’ platform, precipitating a bank run-like situation at the exchange, following May’s crash of Terra and its LUNA token, which plunged bitcoin to a third of its previous all-time high value of almost $69,000.
In its bankruptcy filings, Celsius revealed it owes $4.7 billion to its users. Since then, some 58,000 custody account holders, who lost a combined $150 million, have organized to hold the firm to account and recover their lost assets.
Read more: Celsius CEO Mulls Crypto Custody Pivot After Lending Business Imploded: Report
UPDATE (Sept. 14, 21:03 UTC): Added details about the examiner's schedule."
225,12,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/14/terras-luna-luna-classic-tokens-plunge-as-south-korea-issues-arrest-warrant-for-do-kwon/,"Terra’s Luna, Luna Classic Tokens Plunge as South Korea Issues Arrest Warrant for Do Kwon",Terra-based decentralized finance products saw outflows of over $20 million Wednesday morning.,2022-09-14,"Terra tokens luna (LUNA) and luna classic (LUNC) plunged as a South Korean court issued an arrest warrant against Do Kwon, the network's founder, and five others on Wednesday morning.
LUNA fell 36% in the past 24 hours while LUNC dropped 25%, with much of the price movement coming after news of the warrant was made public on Wednesday morning. The warrant was issued four months after the collapse of the $40 billion Terra ecosystem and its algorithmic stablecoin (UST), which was the first domino to fall in this year's crypto winter.
Valued locked on Terra-based products fell 30%, dropping from more than $55 million to under $29 million at the time of this writing as the tokens fell and with investors likely withdrawing capital, data shows.
Last week, LUNA gained 200% in a speculative rally following the release of a fundamental catalyst on luna classic, the network’s old tokens. Those gains were mostly reversed as traders took profits in the following days, and are now nearly negligible as LUNA tokens slump back to the prices of Sept. 5.
(This is a developing story.)"
226,224,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/09/20/voyager-seeks-to-unwind-alameda-loan/,Crypto Lender Voyager Digital Seeks to ‘Unwind’ $200M Loan to Alameda Research,"Alameda, a firm run by FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, had said it is ""happy to return"" the loan to the firm that's now in bankruptcy.",2022-09-20,"Voyager Digital, an insolvent crypto lender that is auctioning off its assets, has asked a federal bankruptcy court in New York for permission to “unwind” a $200 million loan it made to trading firm Alameda Research, according to a court filing.
In exchange for repaying the loan, Alameda would receive $160 million back in its pledged collateral. The loan, which was made in September of last year, is denominated largely in bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and USD Coin (USDC).
Alameda was founded by Sam Bankman-Fried, the billionaire crypto entrepreneur who also founded FTX, a crypto exchange. FTX has its own link to Voyager. Last week, CoinDesk reported that it's in the lead to purchase Voyager's assets through an auction taking place in its bankruptcy case.
In July, Alameda tweeted that it's ""happy to return the Voyager loan and get our collateral back whenever works for Voyager.""
Alameda Ventures, a firm that is separate from Alameda Research but that is also controlled by Bankman-Fried, has also loaned $200 million in cash and USDC as well as 15,000 BTC to Voyager in order to “mitigate current market conditions.” Alameda Ventures is a Voyager shareholder.
Changpeng Zhao, CEO of Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, has previously tweeted that the complex relationship between all of the firms is ""hard to follow."" Binance has also tried to buy Voyager, CoinDesk has reported.
The court filing also requests that both parties' cryptocurrency wallet addresses remain confidential.
Voyager filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July after it faced a swarm of requests by customers to withdraw their funds as cryptocurrency prices spiraled down in the aftermath of the collapse of Terra network's UST stablecoin and related LUNA token.
Read more: Voyager Kept Taking Buy Orders After Freezing Crypto Transfers; Now, This Trader Is Stuck"
227,30,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/20/terra-co-founder-do-kwons-legal-troubles-unlikely-to-affect-broader-crypto-markets-analysts-say/,"Terra Co-Founder Do Kwon’s Legal Troubles Unlikely to Affect Broader Crypto Markets, Analysts Say","However, some traders see increased volatility for tokens related to Kwon in the coming days.",2022-09-20,"A name on the Interpol's wanted list and a South Korean police alert for Terra co-founder Do Kwon’s whereabouts are unlikely to cause havoc to the broader crypto markets, two markets observers told CoinDesk on Tuesday.
Kwon's arrest warrant puts pressure on an already intensive regulatory debate about market conduct, consumer protection and financial stability risks associated with crypto markets. Kwon’s current location is unknown and the Singapore Police Force confirmed to the press that Kwon was no longer in the city-state, where he resided until at least May.
In the weeks following Terra’s implosion in May, prices of its LUNA and UST tokens dropped over 99.7%. At the same time, decentralized finance applications built on the network lost some $28 billion in market value – making the entire ordeal one of the single-largest capital destructive event in the history of cryptocurrencies.
Some are, however, playing down the impact of Kwon’s legal troubles on broader crypto markets.
“In my opinion, Terra doesn’t present systemic risks to the broader crypto markets, especially with regard to investments in the sector,” Victor Young, software architect at blockchain network Analog, told CoinDesk, pointing to the overall perception of cryptocurrencies remaining positive among investors.
However, Young added that regulators and policymakers were increasingly seeing the scale of the losses in the industry as “a major warning sign” of possible future worst-case scenarios.
Young added that the quick formation of Terra 2.0 – a separate blockchain built to regain investors’ trust – showed how fast developments in the crypto markets take place. “It (Terra 2.0) already attracted a syndicate of investors and users who are likely to suffer because of such a move, which demonstrated that regulators and policymakers are failing to keep pace with the speed of innovation,” he said.
Ajay Dhingra, head of research and analytics at crypto exchange Unizen, likened Terra’s fall to a major bank affected during the 2008 recession.
""The Terra collapse is somewhat similar to the Lehman Brothers meltdown in the Great Financial Crisis of 2008,” Dhingra told CoinDesk in a Telegram message. “The arrest warrant will cause an extreme spike in the LUNA's volatility, as investigators piece together the most significant event of 2022.""
LUNA (the revamped token associated with the new Terra blockchain) and luna classic (the original blockchain's renamed token), have been two of the most-volatile tokens in the past few months. LUNC fell from an April high of $119 to $0.00000099 in mid-May, and has since risen a staggering 29,000%. Its value has doubled in the past month – even as the broader market did not show similar growth.
LUNA, on the other hand, gained 200% in a speculative rally over a few days last week following the release of a fundamental catalyst. Those gains were reversed almost as immediately as the rise, and now trading at levels last seen in August."
228,304,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/09/21/digital-dollar-likely-wont-be-part-of-retail-banking-world-us-lawmaker-says/,"Digital Dollar Likely Won't Be Part of Retail Banking World, US Lawmaker Says","White House reports on central bank digital currencies ""point the way"" but Congress still has to pass legislation on these issues, Congressman Jim Himes told CoinDesk.",2022-09-21,"A U.S. central bank digital currency (CBDC) may be one step closer to reality after the White House published several reports analyzing the technical and policy aspects of a digital dollar last week. Congressman James Himes (D-Conn.) has been an outspoken advocate for a U.S. central bank digital currency, going so far as to publish a white paper on the issue in June 2022.
Himes, who chairs the House Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on National Security, International Development and Monetary Policy has also overseen a number of hearings on crypto assets and their role in national security and related issues.
The six-term congressman spoke to CoinDesk after the White House, Treasury, Commerce and Justice Departments published half a dozen reports in response to U.S. President Joe Biden’s executive order on crypto on Sept. 16.
The following interview has been edited for clarity.
CoinDesk: Thank you so much for joining me. I really appreciate it.
Congressman Jim Himes: Yeah, happy to be with you.
I'm sure you must be busy and it's Friday, so let's get right into it. It's been a pretty intense day with the six reports published by the White House as well as several federal agencies or departments today. But I know you in particular have been talking about central bank digital currencies for quite a while now and, of course, you published a white paper titled “Winning the Future of Money,” I think in June, right, a few short months ago. What's your take on the multiple papers published today by the White House and the Treasury Department on this issue of central bank digital currencies?
The element of the various releases on central bank digital currency didn't break a lot of new ground. I was very happy to see that in the text they emphasize the importance of the United States not getting left behind technologically. I actually think that may be one of the more compelling reasons to continue, but it is a lot of work on the technological side, on the implementation side, making sure that if we do a CBDC that it's really a very robust network with all of the safety considerations we would have.
I was glad to see they said, ""let's keep cranking away."" But that's not enormously groundbreaking, I think. Overall, sort of when you move outside of just the narrow alley of central bank digital currency, I think the White House's releases were a good contribution to an effort that is really picking up very notable momentum in Washington.
I actually think the action is largely on Capitol Hill. In the Financial Services Committee on which I sit, there's a bipartisan effort to get a stablecoin bill put together. On the Senate side, you've got an Agriculture Committee bill that would describe the authorities of the Commodity Futures Trading [Commission].
Where the rubber meets the road, I think Congress is making good progress. Now, not necessarily like we're going to pass new laws in the next couple of weeks progress, but you have to remember that two years ago if you'd said “digital asset” or “cryptocurrency” in the halls of Congress most people would look at you funny and not know what you were talking about. So I do think that there's been real progress on Capitol Hill.
Out of curiosity, have the reports today, or even just your own views on central bank digital currencies, have they evolved? Or where do you see any changes between what you've published, what the Federal Reserve is looking at, what Treasury published, and just this conversation in general that we’re hearing right now around CBDCs?
I think the story of the last couple of months has been one of the market re-instilling some rationality to the digital assets market. An awful lot of people have lost an awful lot of money, and that makes me sad, but – and when I say an awful lot of money, I mean, you hear figures like $2 trillion thrown around. That's just a staggering amount of money. That says two things. Number one, clearly people's desire to expose themselves to digital assets got way ahead of the underlying value, however you would wish to define that. And for that and other reasons I think it's actually really good that Washington is beginning to focus hard.
Now, that doesn't mean that Washington is going to satisfy people. When you talk about digital assets, you've got points of view often extremely aggressively expressed, I'm here to tell you, ranging from the pure libertarian – total anonymity, untraceable, whatever – to the world of a central bank digital currency, where you see China actually operating what, my guess is, there's not a lot of privacy protection there.
You also have the interesting fact that we still don't have a digital asset that is proving to be a robust means of exchange, and it may be fun to contemplate questions like whether bitcoin is an appropriate asset class in your 401(K). But where this will really be interesting for people is if and when it becomes a medium of exchange, and you can send money to South America or buy a consumer good in the U.K., and obviously, we're not there yet.
To that point, do you think that the reports that we saw today are really doing enough to address these questions of usability and still maintaining some semblance of privacy, some semblance of not being a tool for just censorship or surveillance?
Yeah, I think they point the way. The language was pretty strong on urging the regulators to really take a firm hand with the more irresponsible behavior that we've seen. There are an awful lot of people buying into digital assets that are either imperfectly described, maybe that's a euphemism, where people really don't know what they're buying, to out and out fraud. Of course, the [Securities and Exchange Commission] and others have been pretty aggressive about going after the fraudsters
I think that the administration's releases point the way, but the real action, the real specifics aren't in those releases, right? The real action and the real specifics will ultimately be incorporated into legislation in the place where I work. And like I said, I'm gratified that there's been a lot of education, but I do think that the time is now to start to start moving something.
I'm very hopeful, for example, we're running out of time in this Congress, but I'm very hopeful that the Financial Services Committee might produce a stablecoin regulation bill, and … the Senate seems to be taking the lead on the jurisdictional questions of what regulator has authority over what product and hopefully, we'll make some real progress. And if we don't actually get anything done in this Congress in the few months remaining, then in the next Congress, we're in a position to do so.
Just jumping on that, do you think that the level of education is at a point now where once you're done with this stablecoin bill, and, between you and me, I think the stablecoin bill sounds a lot like, with libra, between the collapse of Terra/LUNA, there's been a lot of stablecoin-specific action. Do you see other crypto issues, to the SEC and [Commodity Futures Trading Commission] jurisdiction, for example, coming up and being something that we can see actual legislation on within the next maybe a year or two?
Yeah, absolutely. In fact, you already see it on the Senate side. It's not where I work, but on the Senate side, you already see the Senate Agriculture Committee defining the role for the CFTC, so you already see that happening. Again, I wouldn't anticipate – particularly with an election coming up in seven weeks or so – I wouldn't anticipate that that will pass. But this is how we start educating and discovering kind of what the various equities are.
I sometimes joke, this is a really interesting and important space, but it was introduced to the Congress in just about the most catastrophic way possible. And, of course, I'm referring to the hearings that the Financial Services Committee held on libra. Prior to that, I don't know that many members of Congress had ever even considered the concept of a stablecoin or knew much about digital assets. I sometimes joke that if you had a bunch of evil lobbyists sitting around after a bottle of whiskey and saying, ""what's the most catastrophic way to introduce the Congress to a concept,"" one guy would say, ""well, give me [Meta (formerly Facebook) CEO Mark] Zuckerberg."" And then let's have him talk about a pervasive global currency. I mean, it was just a catastrophe, right? That sort of soured an awful lot of people for no particularly good reason. I mean, I don't know that there's anything wrong with Mark Zuckerberg, I'm just saying that as a sort of presentational matter that may not have been the best introduction.
You've had a lot of work done since libra to educate people. I am hopeful that in the next year or so, we may see a really serious stab at providing some regulatory clarity here.
Not to get into specifics here, but do you see any projects or any efforts out there – and feel free to not name specific names – but any projects that are kind of the counterexample to libra? Ones that lawmakers can look at and say, ""wow, okay, this makes sense, this is something that appeals to me, and this is helping me understand what you're trying to do better?’
I probably would not get in the business of predicting which models which stablecoins are likely to again cross that gap of becoming a common medium of exchange. We're not there yet, but there's no question in my mind that there's a use case there. Whether stablecoins are going to replace the current payment systems that are out there, everything from your debit card to Zelle and Venmo and all the various payments, I don't know, I'm a little skeptical about it. You don't you don't look at those current payment methodologies and say, ""boy, this is really a pain in the neck.”
But I have no doubt that two things are gonna happen. I sometimes draw an analogy, and maybe I'll be accused of being naive here, but I sometimes draw an analogy between the way we're thinking about crypto assets generally today, and the way we were thinking about the internet in, let's say 1996 or 1997. We sort of sensed that there was something there. There were all kinds of what, in retrospect, were absolutely wacky ideas. We're going to deliver cat food or kitty litter to your door for free, all these sorts of models that turned out to be sort of crazy. I'm not sure that we would have necessarily in the mid-1990s predicted exactly what the internet was going to do. But lo and behold, it transformed our lives, really. I sort of feel like we're in a parallel moment like that.
If we sort of expand the aperture to blockchain generally, not just digital assets, there's no question in my mind that there's going to be some transformative aspects of it. But in the meantime, we're going to see a lot of nonsense, and we may not know that it's nonsense until an awful lot of people have lost a lot of money and in a non-common sense business model.
So I want to jump on something you said just now, referring to existing payment systems and tools, and this is kind of tying back to CBDCs, but the Federal Reserve recently announced that it's hoping to launch FedNow as a real time payment system within the next year. Given that, does the calculus around focusing on a central bank digital currency or digital dollar, is it the same? Or does it have to change now that the Fed is actually moving to be more active with this new system that you can argue solves a lot of the same kind of issues that digital dollar would try to solve?
Yeah, I think so. I think that's right, in the wholesale arena. I think that FedNow [the Fed's payment system coming in 2023] is probably a part of a really good, innovative modernization of our financial sector generally. It was not that long ago that trading 100 shares of stock was a $200 commission proposition with five days of closing, there's all kinds of risk associated with that. There's no reason for it, right? The only reason that transactions don't close instantaneously today is that the architecture doesn't support that. And so I do think FedNow is a really good step in the direction of where we want to be, which is taking out an awful lot of the time that used to be involved in the clearing and settlement of securities and currencies and commodities.
I think it's really good, but where I don't think we're going to go, I wouldn't say, ""well, it's going to penetrate into the retail banking world."" There are those who make the argument that individuals should be able to open an account at the Federal Reserve, or maybe they think it's a postal banking thing, a public banking thing. The idea of postal banking is certainly not unprecedented, and it's worth thinking about, I guess.
I do think that the notion that we're going to take the Federal Reserve, who already has massive regulatory duties, and by the way, needs to run our monetary policy and say, ""now, you're going to be the banker to 320 million Americans,"" and in doing that, we're going to wipe out what is one of the primary competitive advantages of the United States, which is our banking sector, I think that's probably not likely. There may be those who think it's a good idea, but I think they're in a pretty small minority.
Fair enough. So something that I think is a little unique about your experience is you chaired the Subcommittee on National Security in House Financial Services and you're part of the Select Committee on Intelligence. Just looking to this idea through those lenses specifically, are there any maybe national security or national interest questions that you think a digital dollar could really address? Or just how are you looking at these questions or even the accessibility through those lenses?
I might add to your list, too, I chair the Select Committee on Economic Disparity and if I can take you off course for one second, I get really excited about the possibility that digital assets could ultimately bring more people into a bank environment, or if not a bank environment, at least provide products and services that are cheaper and more relevant to more people.
So let's imagine a central bank digital currency exists. My intuition is, and it's only my intuition, that it might have a special appeal because it's full faith and credit, it might have a special appeal to a percentage of Americans who are people in our country, by which I mean immigrants, who don't trust the banking system, who are skeptical of financial institutions, but if they believe that the money on their phone is full faith and credit, they might actually use it for payment, they might use it to do cheaper, money transfers, perhaps to family and other countries.
So I get pretty excited about the opportunity to expand in a cost effective way, services to people who are underserved, or if they are served, they're served by very high cost financial products. That's not your question, but let me come back to your question, which is that of course, I think that, like anything else, like any technological innovation, digital assets pose both opportunities and threats to our security. The obvious one that one talks about all the time is, anonymity poses some very serious issues. I mean, who really wants to use a fully anonymous payment mechanism? Yes, my libertarian friends want to use that because they don't want the government knowing what they're doing.
But the other group of people who use that, of course, are those who are up to no good, whether it's drug dealers or terrorists or human traffickers. So there's that and then there's also the interesting question and if you were British or Chinese or Korean, you would probably regard this differently than then I, that we regard it as Americans, which is the U.S.-built SWIFT Network, the clearing programs, the international payment mechanisms are one tool with which we are familiar and when we need to we can get visibility when and – this may be a particularly American thing – when you go before a judge and demonstrate probable cause you can actually access the information of those of whom you suspect breaking of breaking the law. That may not be true of other payment systems that are hosted or sponsored by other countries.
Editor’s note: Due to technical difficulties, Rep. Himes was asked to repeat his response to the final question.
An awful lot of people, the estimates are that 19% or so of Americans are unbanked or underbanked. Part of that, of course, is that a lot of people have suspicions about the big financial institutions and I'm intrigued by the possibility that a full faith and credit CBDC for example, might might offer the confidence that would cause somebody to use that as a payment mechanism or as a way to remit money to a home country or something like that. I do think there's real possibilities there, not to mention the possibilities that could be generated either by the private sector directly or by the private sector building on a digital token that was a full faith and credit card thing.
In the more traditional realm of national security there's what we always worry about, which is the question of anonymity if you have a payment system into which we have no visibility and that could be a foreign payment system or a payment system, which is deliberately obscured like what you see with some of these mixtures and such. There's, I think, two categories of people who really need anonymity. There's libertarians, who want that for their own reasons, and then there's, of course, people for whom anonymity is a professional necessity and that's the folks that are up to no good.
There may be others but obviously, we do not want a totally opaque means of payment that could be abused by terrorists or dealers or human traffickers. The other and the last thing I would say is to the point of transparency we're good in this country in terms of not abusing American civil rights or U.S. person civil rights, I should say, the distinction being that if you're in this country, regardless of if you’re a citizen or not, you're entitled to constitutional protection. We have a system that says that if you convince a judge that Sam is potentially committing a crime, that judge will give you permission to get evidence of that crime. There are plenty of countries where you wouldn't want that, because they don't care about civil rights. That's a pretty important part of our justice system here.
Lastly, I would just note we don't want technological developments to get radically away from us. The United States since World War II has been a technological leader in every realm, and we don't want to be – I suppose it's okay to be a fast follower, but we really don't want to be left behind by Chinese innovations or even European innovations. We may not worry about the Europeans as a foe, but every time I contemplate the possibility that we might not be at the technological forefront, it's sad."
229,3,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/26/luna-classic-remnant-of-terra-collapse-jumps-60-as-binance-unveils-burn-scheme/,"Luna Classic, Remnant of Terra Collapse, Jumps 60% as Binance Unveils Burn Scheme","The crypto exchange’s new measure aims to reduce the hyperinflated LUNC token’s supply, but it is unlikely to have the desired effect that traders hope for.",2022-09-26,"Luna classic (LUNC), the remnant token of the failed Terra blockchain prior to its reboot, surged on Monday after Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange, unveiled a scheme to reduce the supply of the token.
The LUNC price jumped as much as 60% on the news, reaching as high as $0.00032, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko. The token was changing hands at around $0.00029 at press time.
The sudden rally caught many traders by surprise, especially because many of them had bet that the LUNC price would fall on the news that Interpol had issued a “red notice” for Terra’s founder, Do Kwon. Some $1.5 million of short positions have been liquidated during the day, the highest in at least three months, according to Coinglass.
The Terra ecosystem’s collapse in May was one of the most dramatic implosions in the crypto market. It wiped out $60 billion in market value and caused some crypto firms to become insolvent. Earlier this month, South Korean authorities issued an arrest warrant for Kwon on charges of fraud.
Many developers who were building applications on the original-and-now-abandoned blockchain have moved over to the newly rebooted Terra blockchain or to other networks like Polygon or Kadena that are seen as having more staying power. At least one analyst has suggested that LUNC is now a “meme coin,” with few use cases beyond providing traders with speculation and quick profits (or losses).
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
Earlier this month, the LUNC token surged in anticipation of a community-approved plan to reduce the token’s hyperinflated supply.
The so-called “supply burn plan” aims to destroy – burn in crypto terms – 1.2% of every LUNC transaction on the blockchain. The mechanism doesn't apply to buying and selling tokens on exchanges, but some crypto exchanges such as MEXC voluntarily decided to adopt the supply reduction mechanism.
The burn scheme Binance just announced, however, may have less of an impact than many traders hope.
According to a statement, the crypto exchange will destroy the equivalent of the trading fees when a trader sells or buys LUNC. Traders on Binance may opt for applying the 1.2% “burn fee” voluntarily. Given that trading fees on Binance range from 0.1% to as low as 0.02% for large traders, the burn rate is just a fraction of the 1.2% transaction burn rate.
Traders who move the most volume on the exchange, such as market makers, are unlikely to voluntarily choose the 1.2% fees, crypto trader Ogle pointed out in a Twitter post. Binance’s burn scheme “is almost totally useless to LUNC folks, but they don’t realize it,” he told CoinDesk."
230,29,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/09/27/decentralized-exchange-bancor-proposes-burning-1-million-bnt-tokens-to-support-prices/,Decentralized Exchange Bancor Proposes Burning 1M BNT Tokens to Support Prices,Bancor to call more 'burn events' if the proposed effort has an intended bullish effect on BNT's price.,2022-09-27,"While traditional market investors are waiting for the U.S. Federal Reserve to abandon liquidity tightening and inject life back into stocks, some participants in the crypto market have taken it upon themselves to support the price of their favorite tokens.
For instance, the native community of Bancor, an Ethereum-based decentralized exchange, is voting on a proposal to destroy a significant chunk of the protocol's endemic coin, the bancor network token (BNT), in the hope that the so-called token burn will bode well for the cryptocurrency's price.
""DAO [decentralized autonomous organization] members have cited the fact that 'burns' have a psychological effect on market participants and the same can happen if such an experiment is allowed to be carried out,"" according to the proposal, which opened for voting for vBNT holders on Sept. 25. ""For this reason, this proposal is seeking a one-time burn of 1 million BNT when this amount has accumulated in the Bancor [version]3 vault.""
The proposal adds that the DAO will push for more token burns if the proposed measure has the desired effect on BNT's price. vBNT is the governance token issued to users who stake BNT in Bancor liquidity pools.
Token burn is a mechanism to remove a certain number of coins from circulation, thereby skewing demand-supply factors in favor of price appreciation. Early this month, the luna classic (LUNC) token surged on expectations of a community-approved plan to reduce the cryptocurrency's hyper-inflated supply. Dominant crypto exchange Binance destroys a significant chunk of its native cryptocurrency, BNB, every quarter.
The voting on Bancor's token burn proposal is set to expire on Sept. 28. At press time, 99% of votes favored destroying BNT once the total amount collected by the Bancor Vortex in the v3 vault reached 1 million.
The Bancor Vortex, launched early last year, collects a protocol-wide administration fee from liquidity providers. In version 2, the vortex collected fees in various tokens, which were then exchanged for BNT. The BNT was then used to buy and burn vBNT, ultimately reducing the circulating supply of BNT.
However, the v3 unveiled early this year simplified the process, removing the need to collect fees in different tokens and allowing the fees to be immediately swapped for BNT continuously, according to The TIE research.
At press time, the vortex vault held around 860,000 BNT tokens. The proposal estimates that the tally could rise to 1 million in the next 30 days.
The BNT token, susceptible to inflation, changed hands at 46 cents at press time, having peaked above $9 during the height of the crypto bull run in April 2021, CoinDesk data show. As of writing, BNT's circulating supply was 198.85 million."
231,101,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/09/27/s-korean-authorities-look-to-freeze-67m-bitcoin-tied-to-terras-do-kwon/,S. Korean Authorities Look to Freeze $67M Bitcoin Tied to Terra's Do Kwon,"Interpol has issued a Red Notice for Kwon's provisional arrest pending extradition, as a worldwide search for the Terraform Labs co-founder continues.",2022-09-27,"Authorities in South Korea have requested crypto exchanges OKX and KuCoin to freeze some 3,313 bitcoin (BTC), worth around $67 million, tied to Terraform Labs co-founder Do Kwon, CoinDesk Korea reported on Tuesday.
The bitcoin was transferred to digital wallets of the exchanges shortly after an arrest warrant was issued for Kwon in South Korea on Sept. 14, according to the report. Authorities accused the crypto entrepreneur of violating the country's securities laws and issued the warrant just months after the collapse of the $40 billion Terra ecosystem, which triggered a market downturn and the collapse of other major players in the industry.
While Kwon has maintained he is not on the run, South Korean authorities had asked Interpol for assistance in locating him. On Monday, Interpol put out a Red Notice, which is a request to law enforcement around the world to locate and provisionally arrest Kwon pending extradition, surrender or similar legal action.
Blockchain data analytics platform CryptoQuant says a digital wallet for the Luna Foundation Guard (a nonprofit set up in Singapore to promote Terra's growth) was ""suddenly"" created on crypto exchange Binance on Sept. 15. In the three days that followed, 3,313 BTC were transferred to KuCoin and OKX. In the months before Terra collapsed, the Luna Foundation Guard bought around $1.5 billion worth of bitcoin to beef up the reserves for its stablecoin UST.
While KuCoin has frozen some 1354 BTC ($27 million) transferred to the platform, OKX is allegedly ""ignoring the prosecution's request to freeze assets"" according to the article.
""OKX can confirm that it has received a request from the Korean authorities, and that it is cooperating with their investigation,"" a spokesperson told CoinDesk following the publication of this article.
A spokesperson for KuCoin said it is ""willing to cooperate with any global law enforcement agencies when it comes to cases of investigations pertaining to the origin and freezing of suspected assets.""
Meanwhile, Do Kwon denied ""cashout"" allegations in a tweet.
Read more: Interpol Issues Red Notice for Do Kwon: Report
UPDATE (Sept. 28, 06:25 UTC): Adds comment from KuCoin and Do Kwon.
UPDATE (Sept. 28, 07:32 UTC): Adds comment from OKX."
232,5,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/03/luna-classic-remnant-of-terra-collapse-drops-after-underwhelming-binance-burn-mechanism-data/,"Luna Classic, Remnant of Terra Collapse, Drops After Underwhelming Binance Burn Mechanism Data","Binance’s scheme destroyed only 0.08% of LUNC’s bloated supply, too minuscule to have a lasting impact on the hyperinflated token.",2022-10-03,"The crypto exchange Binance’s planned “burn” of luna classic (LUNC) – the remnant cryptocurrency of the failed blockchain project Terra prior to its reboot – was supposed to boost the price. At least, that was the speculation of many crypto traders.
But the impact turned out to be underwhelming.
Since the mechanism was implemented a week ago, Binance destroyed – “burned” in crypto terms, or a reduction in the outstanding supply – $1.8 million worth of LUNC, based on a tweet Monday by Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao. That amount represents only 0.08% of the total supply of the token, too minuscule to make any measurable impact on the tokens' hyperinflated supply.
The price of LUNC dropped 12% in the last 24 hours, to $0.0003037, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko.
LUNC is the native token of the Terra Classic blockchain, which imploded this May, wiping out $60 billion in market value; the project’s algorithmic stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar, and LUNC, the token that was supposed to be its stabilizer, fell into hyperinflation. While most crypto developers and projects left the blockchain, some community members attempted to bring new life to the network by introducing a scheme that reduces the bloated supply of the token.
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
LUNC almost doubled its price last week after Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume, unveiled its own supply-reduction scheme, CoinDesk reported last week. The crypto exchange implemented a mechanism that destroys the same amount of coins as the fees it collects from trading LUNC.
LUNC became the third-most traded asset on Binance with trading volume after bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), according to data by CoinMarketCap.
The burn was calculated based on the token’s trading volume between Sept. 21 and Oct. 1. So Binance took 5.6 billion tokens out of circulation by sending them to a “burn” address, according to blockchain data.
Given that there are more than 6.8 trillion tokens in circulation, the burn rate works out to a meager 0.08% of the total supply – extrapolating to only a few percentage points of reduction on an annualized basis.
Binance's scheme “is meaningless in its direct impact,” a crypto trader, who goes by the pseudonym of Ogle, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat, adding, “At this rate, assuming the volume continued to be as high as now (which I doubt), it would take 15 years to get to the total burn goal.”"
233,8,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/04/first-mover-asia-bitcoin-climbs-back-past-195k-amid-fresh-hopes-for-a-fed-retreat-binances-failed-plan-to-boost-the-price-of-luna-classic/,First Mover Asia: Bitcoin Climbs Back Past $19.5K Amid Fresh Hopes for a Fed Retreat; Binance's Failed Plan to Boost the Price of Luna Classic,The largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization and ether both spent much of Monday in the green.,2022-10-04,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin climbs past $19.5K in a good day for cryptos.
Insights: Binance's plan to burn a small amount of LUNC’s bloated supply failed to have a lasting impact on the hyperinflated token.
Catch the latest episodes of CoinDesk TV for insightful interviews with crypto industry leaders and analysis. And sign up for First Mover, our daily newsletter putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context.
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,566 +2.5%
● Ether (ETH): $1,322 +3.0%
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): $963 +2.6%
● S&P 500 daily close: 3,678.43 +2.6%
● Gold: $1,707 per troy ounce +2.7%
● Ten-year Treasury yield daily close: 3.65% −0.2
Bitcoin, ether and gold prices are taken at approximately 4pm New York time. Bitcoin is the CoinDesk Bitcoin Price Index (XBX); Ether is the CoinDesk Ether Price Index (ETX); Gold is the COMEX spot price. Information about CoinDesk Indices can be found at coindesk.com/indices.
Bitcoin and Ether Climb Amid Renewed Hopes for a Fed Retreat
By James Rubin
Crypto investors who have appreciated bad, economic news more than good in recent months were feeling chipper on Monday as the latest manufacturing indicators arrived cooler than expected.
Bitcoin was recently trading over $19,550, up more than 2% over the past 24 hours, amid a surprising monthly decline in the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index, which measures factory activity. The drop didn't send asset prices soaring, but it offered faint hope that the economy was slowing meaningfully, inflation would soon be waning, and the U.S. central bank would be able to ratchet back its recent monetary hawkishness. Markets have been desperate for signs of improvement in the inflation battle that Federal Reserve officials see as key to long-range economic stability.
Ether was recently changing hands at just above $1,300, up roughly 3% from a day earlier, same time. Most other major altcoins in market value were trading higher, with ATOM and MATIC both rising more than 5%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures performance across a basket of cryptocurrencies, increased by over 2.5%.
Equity markets enjoyed a rare upswing with the tech-focused Nasdaq, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) jumping 2.3%, 2.6% and 2.7%, respectively. The increases followed a September of almost unbroken declines as investors continued to fret about rising prices and the prospect of a harsh recession.
Meanwhile, yields on 10-year U.S. Treasurys declined, continuing their path of the past few days after rising to 15-year highs late last month. Yields and asset prices usually travel in opposite directions. The decline may also reflect a surge in investor confidence that Fed policies are working.
Markets remained jittery about Credit Suisse as the investment banking giant tried to allay fears about its financial health, although the company's share price wound up only falling by about 1% on Monday. In Florida, the toll from Hurricane Ian continued to rise, although the cost in repairs and lost economic growth remains unclear.
In an email to CoinDesk, Jon Campagna, partner and head of trading and capital markets at crypto investment firm CoinFund, noted optimistically that bitcoin and cryptos in general have struggled in September but had their best performance in the last quarter of the year with an average quarterly return of more than 100%. ""It remains to be seen if history can repeat itself for Q4 the way it did for the month of September,"" he wrote.
And Anastasia Amoroso, chief investment strategist at financial tech firm iCapital, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program that bitcoin's price was ""a lot closer to the bottom than we have been, although she added that bitcoin was unlikely to escape the $19,000 to $20,000 band that it has been occupying ""until and unless the Fed pivots.""
""Until then, I think, unfortunately, we're still going to be kept around these current levels,"" she said.
Binance's Failed Scheme to Boost Luna Classic's Price
By Krisztian Sandor
The crypto exchange Binance’s planned “burn” of luna classic (LUNC) – the remnant cryptocurrency of the failed blockchain project Terra prior to its reboot – was supposed to boost the price. At least, that was the speculation of many crypto traders.
But the impact turned out to be underwhelming.
Since the mechanism was implemented a week ago, Binance destroyed – “burned” in crypto terms, or a reduction in the outstanding supply – $1.8 million worth of LUNC, based on a tweet Monday by Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao. That amount represents only 0.08% of the total supply of the token, too minuscule to make any measurable impact on the tokens' hyperinflated supply.
The price of LUNC dropped 12% in the last 24 hours, to $0.0003037, according to cryptocurrency price tracker CoinGecko.
LUNC is the native token of the Terra Classic blockchain, which imploded this May, wiping out $60 billion in market value; the project’s algorithmic stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar, and LUNC, the token that was supposed to be its stabilizer, fell into hyperinflation. While most crypto developers and projects left the blockchain, some community members attempted to bring new life to the network by introducing a scheme that reduces the bloated supply of the token.
Read more: Luna (LUNA) vs. Luna Classic (LUNC): What Is the Difference?
LUNC almost doubled its price last week after Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by trading volume, unveiled its own supply-reduction scheme, CoinDesk reported last week. The crypto exchange implemented a mechanism that destroys the same amount of coins as the fees it collects from trading LUNC.
LUNC became the third-most traded asset on Binance with trading volume after bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH), according to data by CoinMarketCap.
The burn was calculated based on the token’s trading volume between Sept. 21 and Oct. 1. So Binance took 5.6 billion tokens out of circulation by sending them to a “burn” address, according to blockchain data.
Given that there are more than 6.8 trillion tokens in circulation, the burn rate works out to a meager 0.08% of the total supply – extrapolating to only a few percentage points of reduction on an annualized basis.
Binance's scheme “is meaningless in its direct impact,” a crypto trader who goes by the pseudonym of Ogle, told CoinDesk in a Telegram chat.
“At this rate, assuming the volume continued to be as high as now (which I doubt), it would take 15 years to get to the total burn goal.”
MetaBeat Conference (San Francisco)
11:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(3:30 a.m. UTC): Reserve Bank of Australia rate statement
9 .m. H1HKT/SGT(1 p.m. UTC): Speech by Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John C. Williams
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
SEC Charges Kim Kardashian for Promoting EthereumMax; Bitcoin Holds Above $19K
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian paid $1.26 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to settle charges relating to her promotion of ethereumMax. Plus, what do analysts expect from the crypto markets this month? ""First Mover"" chatted with Anastasia Amoroso, iCapital chief investment strategist. And Matthew Price discusses Binance's new training program for law enforcement.
Kim Kardashian Pays $1.26M Fine to SEC for Promoting EthereumMax Without Disclosing Reimbursement: The reality TV star also agreed not to tout any cryptocurrencies for three years.
Crypto Exchange Coinbase Fixes Technical Problem That Temporarily Halted Payments and Withdrawals From US Bank Accounts: The exchange says the issue was identified and a solution implemented.
Ex-CEO of Bankrupt Crypto Lender Celsius Withdrew $10M Weeks Before Company Froze Customer Accounts: Report: Alex Mashinsky resigned as CEO on Sept. 27; the company filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in mid July.
Deglobalization Is Happening. Crypto Is Part of the Answer: The rise of a common global financial infrastructure will continue as the international landscape becomes even more fragmented by war and disaster.
Citi Says Decentralized Crypto Exchanges Are Gaining Market Share From Centralized Peers: Increased crypto regulation could drive users to decentralized platforms, the bank said."
234,267,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/06/crypto-failures-fueled-better-due-diligence/,Crypto Failures Fueled Better Due Diligence,"As crypto markets turn turbulent, asset managers perform due diligence by looking at fundamentals like network usership to increase safety.",2022-10-06,"How do investors in traditional risk assets stay safe in rough markets? They flee to fundamentals, value, income or quality – some expression of factors that lead to a traditional security having less volatility and more advantageous returns in periods of turbulence and down markets.
But what should digital-asset investors do? The fundamentals of digital assets aren't as easily discerned, and it’s not always clear which cryptocurrency is going to be more or less volatile than its peers.
Recent events have caused participants in the crypto sector to not only recognize the value of due diligence, but also to revisit how they perform due diligence on digital assets, said panelists in the “Importance of Institutional Due Diligence for Digital Asset and Crypto Investors,” a Digital Asset Research webinar.
You're reading Crypto for Advisors, a weekly look at digital assets and the future of finance for financial advisors. Subscribe here to receive the mailing every Thursday.
“I’d be dishonest if I didn’t say the market looked a little beaten up,” said Marc Nichols, partner and product director at Arbor Digital, a digital asset manager that targets registered investment advisors.
“It’s beaten up for a good reason. We’ve had some bad actors, some players in the space who weren’t acting with good intentions, and we saw that with what happened to Three Arrows Capital and what happened behind the scenes with the Luna protocol network,"" Nichols said.
The collapse of crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital created a cascade effect where investors suddenly heightened their scrutiny of cryptocurrencies and decentralized-finance projects and began to abandon the ones where developers and sponsors weren't acting in good faith or where there was no clear value being added or issue being solved, according to Nichols.
Nichols said that reports from the executive order signed by President Joe Biden in March are being released and the wealth-management industry is finally gleaning some regulatory clarity around the digital-assets market.
Doug Schwenk, CEO of Digital Assets Research, noted that in times of exuberance, investors often abandon the risk-management tools they once embraced in choppier markets, leaving them prone to drawdowns.
Nichols echoed Schwenk’s remarks, saying that all the signs of underlying vulnerability were present but that people weren't paying attention.
“We saw that in the space with people who were thought to be trusted players,” Nichols said. “Three Arrows Capital was a darling of the hedge fund space ... though we saw things happening that were cause for question, a lot of people chose to ignore them. So if you did due diligence and took a responsible approach, you could have seen the issues bubbling up – but because prices were going up, people wanted in.”
Read more: An Advisor’s Guide to Altcoin Investing
In a particularly obvious sign of market froth, the zeal for digital assets spread to the NFT market. As noise around the NFT sector increased in 2021, one non-fungible token sold for $69 million.
And then, last fall, the rally was over. After peaking at close to $69,000, the price of bitcoin (BTC) fell by more than 67% over a period of several months. Altcoin prices followed suit, often exceeding bitcoin’s losses.
The collapse wasn’t caused by macro issues, according Nichols, but by overleverage by investors like Three Arrows Capital. Digital brokerages were offering too much leverage to traders and investors, and firms like Three Arrows took on too much debt and counterparty risk.
“It wasn’t decentralized finance or the technology that actually broke. It was just human behavior and taking actions that they probably knew were a little outside the spectrum,” Nichols said. “With prices going up and dollars flooding into the space, it’s hard not to have the human reaction that we need to try to grow this exponentially.”
Luna was an experiment that used rich incentives to bootstrap the growth of its underlying network – including promises of fixed yields in the neighborhood of 20%.
But Luna’s failure was one of “economic theory gone awry,” Nichols said. While due diligence showed weakness in the Luna network, asset prices soared and investors bought into the hype. “It’s the same thing we’ve seen play out in traditional markets for hundreds of years,” he said.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
Another spectacular collapse in the last 12 months involved the staked ethereum trade, where big investors took large positions in staked ethereum and then leveraged other positions on top of those positions.
Many of those investors failed to account for the volatility of cryptocurrencies and didn't employ risk-management techniques to deal with a steep decline in ether's (ETH) price, according to Nichols.
Nichols uses Digital Asset Research to get clean, real-time pricing and asset data on cryptocurrencies and to vet digital assets on the strength and growth of their underlying network.
Arbor Digital, Nichols’ firm, identifies opportunities based on the network effect – the idea that the more valid, active participants a network has, the more powerful and valuable that network becomes.
“It’s almost like you have to throw away your old thinking, like the value and growth metrics and thinking you used to gauge the health of a company,” Nichols said. “We work closely with DAR to discern what that means, because the standards for what that means have not been built yet.”"
235,176,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/06/terra-founder-do-kwons-passport-invalidated-s-korea-says/,"Terra Founder Do Kwon's Passport 'Invalidated,' S. Korea Says","Do Kwon has 14 days to return his passport, according to a notice on a government website.",2022-10-06,"The South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs posted a public notice on its website Wednesday announcing it would invalidate Terra creator Do Kwon's passport, advancing a move the government first said it was considering last month.
The government said the notice was being posted publicly due to an ""inability to deliver"" the passport return order. An attached PDF document added further detail, saying the move means Kwon might be rejected if he tries to apply for the reissuance of his passport.
""Our Department would like to send a 'Notice of Order for Return of Passport' to you by registered mail,"" the notice said. ""... we inform you that the validity of your passports will be invalidated and administratively invalidated.""
Normally the invalidation of a passport would mean Kwon can no longer leave South Korea. If he is not currently in South Korea, he would likely find it difficult to travel elsewhere. Officials gave Kwon 14 days from the notice's issuance to return the passport.
The news comes shortly after South Korean prosecutors told local media outlets that they had ordered the freezing of nearly $40 million worth of crypto assets they said were tied to Kwon.
However, Kwon tweeted later that he did not use the exchanges in question and the funds were not his.
He continued a recent trend of tweeting statements at odds with what Korean officials have said. He said he could not find an Interpol ""Red Notice"" on the intergovernmental police agency's public website after prosecutors told reporters one had been issued and denied claims that he was ""on the run,"" despite an outstanding arrest warrant from South Korea and statements from officials in Singapore saying they could not locate him.
Terraform Labs, the Terra ecosystem token issuer, previously said in a statement that the arrest warrant was beyond the scope of prosecutors' authority, calling the investigation ""highly politicized"" and claiming it violated basic rights.
Terra, Kwon's brainchild, collapsed dramatically in May of this year, shedding close to $20 billion over the course of days.
Neither Kwon nor Terra immediately returned requests for comment.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
UPDATE (Oct. 6, 2022, 01:20 UTC): Corrects that $40 million were frozen, not $40 billion."
236,45,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/19/terra-developers-unveil-4-year-plan-to-revive-luna-ecosystem/,Terra Developers Unveil 4-Year Plan to Revive LUNA Ecosystem,Incentivizing developers and increasing user activity with LUNA tokens are key parts of the proposal.,2022-10-19,"Terra developers floated a new proposal earlier this week as they look to revive the once-mighty network, even as Do Kwon, the platform's controversial co-founder, faces a warrant for his arrest on charges of fraud. Authorities have been searching for Kwon since last month, but he has denied that he is on the run.
Termed the “Terra Expedition,” the proposal is a revised version of the developer mining program and developer alignment program that were established when the Terra network started.
The majority of LUNA tokens must be voted in favor of the proposal before it can go into effect.
The new program would be funded with 9.5% of the total supply of LUNA tokens that was earmarked at the launch of a new Terra blockchain. (A new Terra blockchain was started earlier this year after the original network and its two related digital tokens imploded in May.)
The incentive program for the new network would run for four years and be managed by a community-elected committee that will evaluate the plan every 12 months.
The proposal aims to better align incentives across the network and to attract developers, get new users onboard and promote liquidity.
“The Terra Expedition is a four-year program aimed at growing the Terra ecosystem through a series of initiatives with three main objectives, namely: incentivizing developers to build on Terra, deepening liquidity on Terra and onboarding users to Terra,” the proposal read.
Of the allocation, 20 million LUNA tokens are earmarked for a developer grants program. Developers of different apps will be paid upon a successful audit and project launch on Luna's main network. Some examples of projects pointed out in the proposal include decentralized exchanges, lending protocols, stablecoin issuers and derivatives protocols.
Projects will also be eligible for up to $40,000 in reimbursements for their smart contract audits. Crypto security remains a sore point in the world of blockchains: This month is already the worst ever for attacks and exploits in the history of cryptocurrencies.
Another 20 million LUNA tokens would be floated to reward developers building on Terra. Any project deemed “essential” by the community – which has launched an app on Terra's network – would qualify. The tokens are scheduled to be distributed every quarter, the proposal stated.
A liquidity mining incentive scheme of 50 million LUNA tokens, which would be distributed over four years, has also been proposed. These funds would be used to fund the initial liquidity of decentralized exchanges, stablecoins, bridges and other similar protocols built on Terra.
Developers have also proposed to award five million LUNA to users to give them an incentive to use bridges and decentralized applications on the network and to mint non-fungible tokens (NFT) on the platform.
The original proposal earmarked a certain portion of the total LUNA supply to be distributed based on the value locked up on Terra-based protocols, but such an allocation would now “mainly benefit a few protocols,” and thus not have the intended effect of kickstarting the Terra ecosystem.
Terra-related applications lost $28 billion in value following the May implosion of Terra and its LUNA and UST tokens. As of this writing, Terra-based applications have only $40 million in locked value spread over seven protocols."
237,26,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/24/how-crypto-traders-are-weathering-the-bear-market/,How Crypto Traders Are Weathering the Bear Market,Subtitle not found,2022-10-24,"Crypto prices are excruciatingly range-bound. Search interest has bottomed out. Trading volumes and open interest on exchanges has plummeted as demand has evaporated.
Last year’s crypto casino that drew hordes to digital assets has become a ghost house of the discouraged and disenchanted.
This article is part of CoinDesk's Trading Week.
But among the remaining residents are day traders, a small group of steely nerved investors who bank on their ability to read cryptos’ daily price fluctuations to pay their bills. Some garnered well into six-figure incomes. Some became millionaires.
But the current bear market has complicated their jobs. How do you forecast an asset’s future when that asset correlates to wider, macroeconomic conditions that have reached historical levels of uncertainty? What strategies are useful when the asset is new and its market is suffering through a steep down cycle with no clear indication of an endpoint?
Three full-time crypto traders shared their stories with CoinDesk about how they’ve been weathering the current, bitter cold, crypto winter, including their biggest wins and worst bets of the last few months.
Bethany, Cryptogle and Howard Greenberg have adopted different tactics. Bethany has become cautious and analytical about when and in which digital assets she invests. Cryptogle has been holding investments longer and is shorting cryptos for the first time in his decade as a digital asset investor. Howard Greenberg is setting more moderate expectations on how much he expects to profit and is quicker to abandon investments when they start losing money.
Each of them remains committed to trading crypto, which has been lucrative in the past and which they believe will rally again once inflation and the global economy turn for the better.
“This might be a more painful downturn,” Cryptogle said. “But will crypto come back? Of course it will, and rally again.”
Avid crypto and non-fungible token trader Bethany has mostly stayed out of the current market, although she’s collected some bruises by prematurely predicting that crypto markets would recover sooner.
“I have had some big losses thinking that this is the bottom or a relief rally is due soon.”
She found switching from a “bull mindset” to being more flexible in her crypto bets difficult after the months-long price upswing in 2021. “Since we were in this 'up only' mentality for so long it's been hard for me to shift away from that bias.”
She has been trading a lot less lately, part of a shift among investors to more risk-averse posture. “We've been in a bit of a sideways market and the risk-to-reward is not really there for me.”
Now, with more free time, Bethany is preparing for the next bull run. She has been reviewing trading principles and studying the potential impact of the broader, macroeconomic environment on digital assets. She has also been scrutinizing what traditional finance firms – sometimes referred to as TradFi in crypto circles – are doing in the crypto space.
“There's more institutional investment in crypto than ever before and it is happening at a time when a lot of retail has left crypto or reduced their investments in it. So understanding what's going on in TradFi has become really critical in trying to anticipate where crypto is going.”
Also, Bethany has been dedicating more time to research projects with the potential to hit “100x growth” when the next bull cycle kicks off.
Read More: Is There a 'Best' Time to Trade Crypto? Here’s What the Data Says
She predicts the next bull run’s biggest gainers will be tokens with certain utility to its holders. “I'm thinking of play-to-earn (P2E) gaming as well as tokens with profit-sharing models or a collaborative building experience.”
Winner trade: “Longing luna classic (LUNC) at about $0.00018-ish and riding the wave up.”
Biggest flop: “Longing ether (ETH) for the Merge when, macro-wise, there was really no reason to be bullish.”
The veteran trader, who calls himself Cryptogle on Twitter, has remained active during the crypto rout. Cryptogle, who first dabbled with bitcoin (BTC) in 2012, after trading options and stocks for a decade, has already experienced most of the wild swings in cryptos’ 13-year history and so remains optimistic even in crypto’s most recent darkest hours. “There always are opportunities,” he told CoinDesk. “The last quarter was one of my best.”
This year, he has placed 250 bets a day, on average, including trades made by bots, computer-coded software that executes purchases and sales automatically. Still, this volume is less than his average 800 daily trades in 2021.
Cryptogle has also changed his approach since last year, as he generally holds investments longer. And for the first time in any crypto cycle he is shorting – betting on an asset’s price to drop.
“Hysteria and fear are both easy to trade,” he said. “During the bull market you just throw a dart at the wall and likely you'll hit a big win.”
The same is true for the bear market, when everything is crashing. “Things have been so crap that you could just short the market,” he said. “But you gotta make sure you've got the capital available to cover.”
He is an advocate of flipping charts upside down, a trick some traders do to eliminate any bias when predicting prices. “That makes it easier to understand how to play these games and press the sell button instead of the buy button.”
During the bear market, he prefers making long-term investments in crypto infrastructure that might benefit from a new wave of users when better times come for the crypto market.
Winner trade: “Buying CAKE (decentralized exchange PancakeSwap’s token) before [its] initial farm offerings (IFO), and selling immediately when the IFO was released to the public. It was predictably very profitable as a long and a short for a few months.”
Biggest flop: “Doubling down on MAGIC (Treasure DAO’s token) a couple of months ago. “If I had thought twice I would have realized it had more downward pressure than upward at the time.”
Howard Greenberg is a cryptocurrency trading educator at Chicago-based Prosper Trading Academy, a firm that teaches prospective traders about all types of markets, including crypto.
Greenberg saw a substantial drop in interest and commitment to trade digital assets from last year, adding, “Without a doubt, there was much more interest in trading during the bull run.”
He still has over 1,200 traders subscribing to his signals in his dedicated Prosper trading room, but the number of people who now trade with him has declined.
“Traders come in and out during the bear market, taking days or even weeks off,” he said. This contrasts starkly from last year “when everyone was in for every minute.”
He trades crypto on a daily basis and is making a similar number of bets as last year, but with extra caution. He sets smaller profit targets for winning trades and tighter stop-losses, if the price moves in the opposite direction to his prediction.
Greenberg’s survival tip for the bear market: “Be willing to make smaller wins and limit losses.”
Winner trade: Buying BTC with three times leverage leading up to the July 27 Federal Reserve meeting in anticipation of a short squeeze, together with his trader class. ”We were able to ride that from $21,500 to $23,460 in less than 10 hours. We hit our first profit target within one hour,” he said.
Biggest flop: Planned to short ETH as a “sell the news” event going into the Merge, but he got tricked by the huge amount of short open interest in the futures market that could lead to an epic short squeeze and went long. “The only thing that squeezed was my wallet,” he said.
Read More: Ecosystem Growth, Not Prices, Tells the Real Crypto Story"
238,301,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/24/black-thursdays-bitcoins-five-worst-crashes/,Black Thursdays: Bitcoin's 5 Worst Crashes,"Oct. 24, 1929, (aka “Black Thursday”) is infamous in stock market history. As part of CoinDesk's Trading Week, we are taking a look back at some of the worst crashes in crypto history.",2022-10-24,"Only a few people are old enough to remember what happened on exactly this day almost a century ago. Those who do likely wish they didn’t.
It was Oct. 24, 1929, better known as “Black Thursday,” after a financially booming decade came to an end when Wall Street traders woke up to a stock market that suddenly tumbled 11% from the night before. Larger falls continued for the next two years and eventually the country went into a decade-long economic depression.
This article is part of CoinDesk's Trading Week.
In observance of the occasion – and, oh yeah, it’s Trading Week at CoinDesk – we decided to look back at some spectacular crypto crashes.
If you’re what people would call an ""OG"" cryptocurrency investor, you probably either made the best or worst decision of your life in June 2011.
“Hey guys, it’s Nick. I just witnessed a very dramatic price crash in bitcoin,” a YouTuber with the handle BookofNick told his followers in a video. Bitcoin (BTC), the only cryptocurrency that was circulating back then, had crashed from $17.50 to 1 cent.
“That’s right, people, we’re buying bitcoin at one penny,” Nick said.
The crash occurred when an exchange called Mt. Gox, which in the early years of crypto was handling over 70% of all bitcoin transactions, got hacked. Mt. Gox eventually filed for bankruptcy in 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers’ bitcoins.
On other exchanges, bitcoin’s low that year was around $2, and the cryptocurrency ended the year at around just under $5.
Two years later, more people outside of the narrow crypto spectrum had started paying attention to the latest “internet currency.” The entrepreneur-turned-TV-personality Kevin O’Leary, for example, explained that bitcoin was a safe haven for people who don’t trust any other currency and that it was “here to stay.”
Michael Saylor, then CEO of software vendor MicroStrategy, tweeted on Dec. 13, 2013: “#Bitcoin days are numbered. It seems like just a matter of time before it suffers the same fate as online gambling.”
(Yes, this is the same Michael Saylor who’s now one of bitcoin’s biggest evangelists.)
The year 2013 was also when China made its first mark on bitcoin: The Chinese central bank issued a warning against using bitcoin as legal tender. The price of bitcoin dropped over 50%, from a then-all-time high of $1,200 to less than $600.
Edward Moya, a senior analyst at foreign-exchange broker Oanda, says he started hearing about bitcoin in 2014, when it was trading at around that range.
“I was like, it’s basically lost half its value and there’s these people saying it’s going to $100,000 and it’s even going higher because global central banks are being reckless, and this is how I'm taking control of what I own,” he said. “I was stunned.”
The fact that the bitcoin price was constantly crashing just added to the fascination. “Just seeing which type of investors were supporting this movement” kept him interested, he says, even though he wouldn’t buy in just yet.
If you look at the current price of bitcoin ($19,592 as of press time) and its price five years ago, some skeptics might argue that no progress has been made.
But back in December 2017, when bitcoin’s value topped $20,000 for the first time, traders were astounded – and many early buyers of the original cryptocurrency were suddenly very rich.
But what goes up must come down. Just 12 days later, the crypto asset crashed to $12,840.
And this time, it wasn’t just bitcoin that was hit by the crash. Other established crypto assets, such as Ethereum’s ether (ETH) and Bitcoin Cash’s BCH, lost value, too.
It’s hard to forget March 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic hit the U.S., a life-altering event in just about every way imaginable.
As a result, the stock market lost 13% on March 16, nicknamed ""Black Monday,"" as the pandemic’s potentially devastating impact on the economy suddenly became undeniable. The growing uncertainty caused a crash in crypto assets, considered among the riskiest assets of all.
Bitcoin fell by 57% to a low of $3,867 after having traded near $10,000 in the previous month. Ether, the second-largest cryptocurrency by market value after bitcoin, fell 46% that week.
“Since I knew stocks would recover eventually, I kept what I had already accumulated and added to it,” said Bob Iaccino, co-founder and chief market strategist at Path Trading Partners.
In a strange epilogue, the pandemic ultimately helped crypto gain more mainstream attention. Over the next several months, Wall Street banks and investment firms including BlackRock, AllianceBernstein, Morgan Stanley and Tudor Investment started buying billions of dollars' worth of bitcoin. PayPal announced it would allow 346 million customers to hold bitcoin. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, a longtime bitcoin naysayer, said that cryptocurrency had ""considerable"" price upside.
Eventually, on Dec. 16, 2020, bitcoin pushed past $20,000, eclipsing the previous all-time-high and reaching $29,374 by the end of 2020. What started as a crash ended in a rally.
After a 2021 that was arguably the most successful year for the crypto industry, the reckoning came swiftly.
First came the crash of Terra, a blockchain with its own dollar-linked stablecoin, UST. The UST token was supposed to retain a value of $1, but the price came unpegged – and soon traders also lost confidence in the blockchain’s native cryptocurrency, LUNA, whose price eventually would tumble 99%.
The implosion dragged digital-asset markets lower, including bitcoin’s price. It didn’t help that the U.S. Federal Reserve was rapidly raising interest rates to slow the pace of inflation – putting downward pressure on prices for all assets considered to be risky, from stocks to cryptocurrencies.
Casualties of the rapid market sell-off included Three Arrows Capital, which was once considered one of the savviest crypto hedge funds.
Then, on June 12, Celsius Network, one of the biggest and most successful crypto lenders, informed users that it had frozen their assets due to “extreme market conditions.”
Bitcoin lost nearly 37% in June alone, dropping from $32,000 to below $18,000. Ether dropped 44%."
239,189,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/24/south-korean-regulator-plans-to-look-at-stablecoins-role-in-money-laundering-report/,South Korean Regulator Plans to Look at Stablecoins' Role in Money Laundering: Report,"The country's Financial Services Commission considers stablecoins to be highly susceptible to money laundering, according to a new report.",2022-10-24,"South Korea's Financial Services Commission (FSC) intends to look into the proportion of stablecoins being used on crypto exchanges to prevent money laundering, local news agency News1 reported Monday.
The FSC's ""Risk Assessment Index Development, Improvement, and Application Methods Study for New Business Areas"" report said that financial authorities consider stablecoins to be highly susceptible to money laundering.
The regulator has therefore established a position that it should look into the proportion of stablecoins being used on exchanges as a means of addressing the threat of money laundering, according to News1's report.
South Korean authorities have been proactive with regard to digital assets in recent years, with some 13 crypto-related bills awaiting debate in the country's parliament as of August.
In June, the South Korean government set about forming a committee specifically to oversee the digital assets market, prompted by the collapse of the Terra network. Around 280,000 South Koreans were believed to have been victims of the plunge in the value of the Terra stablecoin UST and its sister token LUNA.
Read more: S. Korean Watchdog Says $7.2B Transferred Overseas Mainly Through Crypto Exchanges: Report"
240,192,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/10/24/first-mover-asia-us-continues-to-give-itself-a-supranational-mandate-via-state-security-agencies-bitcoin-sees-slight-rebound-ether-flat/,"First Mover Asia: US Continues to Give Itself a Supranational Mandate Via State Security Agencies; Bitcoin Sees Slight Rebound, Ether Flat",Why is it that U.S. states can continue to enforce their law around the world?,2022-10-24,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices
● CoinDesk Market Index (CMI): 955.71 +1.63%
● Bitcoin (BTC): $19,625 +2.23%
● Ether (ETH): $1,365 +3.89%
Insights: Can state regulators exert authority over projects without direct ties to the U.S.?
Gambling-theme NFT project Slotie, based in the former Soviet republic of Georgia, has renewed proliferating concerns about U.S. states extending their securities law into foreign jurisdictions.
The Week Begins With a Rebound
By Sam Reynolds and James Rubin
Bitcoin spent the weekend in a familiar place, hovering comfortably over $19,000.
The largest cryptocurrency by market value was recently trading at $19,625, up 2.23% over the last 24 hours and toward the bottom of the narrow range it has occupied for much of the last five weeks. Ether was recently trading at $1,365, up 3.89% from 24 hours earlier and about where it has stood for weeks. Investors remain nervous about inflation and macroeconomic uncertainty that threatens to cast the global economy into a steep recession.
It's generally green across the board as Asia's trading week begins with major altcoins and exchange tokens in the green over the last 24 hours.
Meme coins and metaverse majors were the outliers, with Terra's LUNA down 1.1% and dogecoin knockoff SHIB down 0.5%. Decentraland's MANA token opened the week down 0.9% as the platform struggles with a userbase that's not proportional to its market cap.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures the performance of a basket of cryptocurrencies, recently rose 0.6%.
Equity markets closed last week with a rare upswing, with the tech-focused Nasdaq and S&P 500 rising 2.3%, respectively on Friday, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) climbing 2.4% amid better-than-expected third-quarter earnings from a number of global brands, and despite a declining yen and ongoing political turmoil in the U.K.
Brent crude oil, a measure of energy markets, ticked up slightly to trade over $93 per barrel, up more than 15% from the start of the year. Safe-haven gold climbed 1.6% to trade at $1,654 per ounce.
The U.S. Federal Reserve's next rate hike – a widely expected 75 basis points – is still two weeks away. But on Tuesday, the Conference Board will release October's consumer confidence index – showing a likely decline. The University of Michigan's sentiment index, a measure of attitudes about the U.S. economy, arrives on Friday. During the middle of the week, investors will be able to scrutinize housing starts and durable goods orders.
This rebound will face a test this week as nearly one-third of listed companies in the S&P 500 will announce earnings. If the U.S. really is at the beginning of a recession, missed earnings will be an early warning sign, and knock the wind out of this rebound.
America's Supranational Mandate
By Sam Reynolds
Everything’s bigger in Texas, the idiom goes. But can Texas securities law rule the world? Or can other U.S. states reach long arms into foreign jurisdictions?
Officials from securities regulators in Alabama, Kentucky, New Jersey and Texas are targeting the gambling-themed non-fungible token project Slotie, with accusations that it illegally sold tokens to raise capital.
Slotie is registered in the former Soviet republic of Georgia.
While there are a number of successful online crypto casinos with active player bases, NFT casino projects — which promise a cut of gambling revenue — have so far not really gone anywhere. The Sands Vegas Casino Club pivoted from being a metaverse-style 3D casino to a more traditional online betting operation, using existing online casino infrastructure on the backend.
But this is crypto. Scams and misrepresentations abound. Do your own research.
What’s more concerning is how state regulators are following in the footsteps of the federal government and doing a supranational flex to exert authority over projects that have no material ties to the U.S.
These projects do not actively solicit U.S. residents. Nor are they based in the country, and their staff are foreign nationals. Terraform Labs will be making similar arguments in its court battle with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that prior case law found in Royalty Network Inc. v. Dishant.com means there wasn’t “purposeful availment” of the U.S. market just because the webpage was available there and the content is in English.
(This is separate from Terraform’s case, which it lost, against the SEC that service of Do Kwon, while he was in New York, was valid.)
You can’t say supranational or extraterritorial authority of U.S. regulators without mentioning BitMEX. The exchange, run by Arthur Hayes, a loquacious executive who liked to taunt authority, was charged in 2020 with facilitating unregistered trading, and its top brass was separately charged with violating the Bank Secrecy Act.
Neither the exchange nor its people had a presence in the U.S. The exchange didn’t deal with fiat currency, only bitcoin (it now takes stablecoins). No bank accounts to be examined for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act.
Eventually, none of this was tested in court because BitMEX settled the case, and Hayes pleaded guilty. The ability for American regulators to enforce their laws globally was never examined.
So if the feds have shaky authority that’s yet to be properly examined over regulating international crypto projects, how is it that the states think they can do the same? Everyone knows subnational units like a state or a province generally don’t get involved in international affairs, as it's without question the domain of the federal government.
In previous orders, the Texas state securities board has said that metaverse casinos, like the Flamingo Casino Club, are soliciting residents of the U.S. But there’s no specific language on any of these platform’s sites targeting Texans or Americans in general. It’s also not clear that U.S. residents, or even residents of the prosecuting states, make up the majority of the purchasers of these NFTs.
There may be a case to be made for allegations of fraud and deceit, but why is it that state regulators think they have the authority to make it?
8:30 a.m. HKT/SGT(12:30 a.m. UTC) The Chicago Fed National Activity Index (Sept)
9:45 a.m. HKT/SGT(1:45 a.m. UTC) The S&P Global US Composite PMI (Oct)
4:00 a.m. HKT/SGT(8:00 p.m. UTC) European Central Bank Lending Survey
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
Bitcoin Struggles to Retain $19K; Was Do Kwon Seen in Dubai?
Terra's Do Kwon, a fugitive wanted by South Korean authorities, reportedly left Singapore for Dubai on his way to an unknown destination. Merkle Science co-founder and CEO Mriganka Pattnaik joined ""First Mover"" to discuss the case and recent crypto hacks. Why are bitcoin and ether prices dropping? ARK36 Executive Director Mikkel Morch provided crypto markets analysis. Plus, Regulatory Reporter Jack Schickler detailed how the U.K. government is extending a financial bill to regulate crypto.
Web3 Developers Still Building Despite Crypto Winter: Jason Shah, a product manager at Alchemy, a Web3 development platform, told CoinDesk TV that the pace is actually increasing.
Polkadot Co-Founder Gavin Wood Steps Down From CEO Role at Blockchain's Builder: Bjorn Wagner will now helm Polkadot's key backer, Parity Technologies.
CBDCs Can Work With Stablecoins, Central Bank Trial Finds: The Hong Kong Monetary Authority claims its retail central bank digital currency prototype safeguards flexibility and privacy.
THE Memes Won’t DIE: Crypto Hopefuls Seek Value in Joke Tokens After Vitalik Buterin’s Tweets: If there’s money to be made peddling trendy topics, expect a market for it somewhere in niche meme coin circles.
Goldman Still Sees Strong US Dollar, a Weight on Bitcoin: The cryptocurrency has fallen as the U.S. dollar index has gone up."
241,300,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/27/halloween-costumes-for-broke-crypto-traders/,Halloween Costumes for Broke Crypto Traders,These easy (and affordable!) costumes are perfect for anyone short on time and cash.,2022-10-27,"Halloween is fast approaching, and if you’re like me you’ve put off coming up with a costume idea. Fear not!
CoinDesk has you covered with a list of crypto-themed outfits you can put together with stuff lying around your house.
The bear market has been a blessing, offering a convenient excuse for why you didn't purchase a costume for Oct. 31. If anyone asks what you're dressed as, just call yourself a crypto trader, pull out your empty wallet and pantomime how you lost it all. They’ll get it. Boy, will they get it.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
Below are a few costume concepts, ordered top to bottom from the ultra-lazy and cheap to the more involved. Take them and make them your own.
Blockchain Fork: Do you own a fork? Good, whenever your friends ask where they should head next, hold it high and say “I’m proposing a fork.”
The Merge: Steal a road sign and lug it around.
A White Paper: Cover yourself in a ream of looseleaf paper. (Although podcaster Laura Shin will always wear it best.)
Margin Call: A white T-shirt with “margin” written across it, and a prop phone.
Blockchain Evangelist: This is more performative. Dress up as a preacher and tell people about how crypto has arrived and the end is near for fiat.
A DAO: Wear a rope over your shoulders and carry a stack of poker chips. When someone asks what your costume is, say, ""I'm a DAO, I have a token and dis cord.""
See also: DAOs on Discord: Where to Go, What to Know
The Third Arrow: Buy one of those headbands that makes it look like an arrow is going through your head. For brownie points, ask strangers if they’ve seen your friends Su Zhu and Kyle Davies. “They were just here a moment ago.”
Caitlin Long-Dead: Dress up like beloved crypto doyen and Cowboy Stater, but as a zombie.
Blood Garlinghouse: If you are Ripple founder Brad Garlinghouse, just call yourself Blood. If you are anyone else, dress up as Brad Garlinghouse covered in blood.
Ferocious: Like the lovable NFT artist FEWOCiOUS, but act like you have rabies.
The Bear Market: A bear dressed as a janitor, to “clear out the junk.”
LUNA-Tic: Your standard-fare tic costume, with LUNA written on it. If it doesn’t land, say you’re werewolf Gregor Samsa.
Sexy Charles Hockinson: If you are a falconer (like Cardano’s self-effacing founder), bring around your bird of prey, but show a little skin.
“You’re Size Is Not Size”: Riffing on embarrassed Terra founder Do Kwon’s infamous taunt, wear clothing that is clearly a few sizes too small.
Not Trading Advice: Dress up like a venture capitalist going on safari. But preface and end every conversation you have with “This is not trading advice.”
Proof-of-Stake: Carry around a magnifying glass and print out a teeny tiny image of a steak diner. Ask people what they see. Eureka, it’s steak!
Log Scale: ""Yes, the market has crashed. But if you zoom out, bitcoin is still the best-performing asset of the past decade."" Carry around a bathroom scale and Lincoln logs.
Proof-of-Work: Print out your completed crypto startup OKRs to show everyone what you’ve accomplished this quarter.
Merkle Tree: Combine an Angela Merkel mask with a tree costume.
UST Breaking the Buck: A deer costume, shot dead – like the algorithmic stablecoin that dropped below $1.
CIA asset: For this one, you'll also need to dress up as Charles Hoskinson.
Inflation hedge: Dress up like a privet hedge with an LED screen that shows a .gif of rising prices. (Does the costume work? Not really. But neither did BTC as a hedge.)
Tungsten cube: A cardboard box lined with tungsten. For extra fun, ask your friends to pick you up – marvel when they realize how dense you’ve become.
See also: That Tungsten Company Is Auctioning Its Largest-Ever Cube"
242,312,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/27/maren-altman-cryptos-tiktok-astrologer/,Maren Altman: Crypto’s TikTok Astrologer,Subtitle not found,2022-10-27,"Most traders use technical analysis (TA) to foretell crypto’s future movements. Maren Altman uses astrology.
Altman has amassed a large and significant social media following for her content bridging astrology and crypto. So massive she is under scrutiny for her relationship with crypto lender Celsius Network, including receiving marketing payments, before it sought bankruptcy protection.
This article is part of CoinDesk's ""Trading Week.""
How big? With 1.4 million followers on TikTok, 204,000 subscribers on YouTube, 237,000 on Twitter and 141,000 on Instagram, Altman says she is “your personal poet for the stars.”
Altman studied philosophy at New York University and is an avid fan of punk rock music such as My Chemical Romance. She joined TikTok and started her journey down the crypto rabbit hole during the end of her last semester of college, circa April-May 2020.
Despite being new to crypto at a time when BTC was worth less than $10K, Altman said early on she was seeing “correlations between planetary cycles and cryptocurrency markets.”
The euphoria from the subsequent bull run of 2021 helped funnel a wave of people into Altman’s social media channels. Some were interested in her astrological predictions while others were simply curious about the Bitcoin and Ethereum ecosystems.
Read more: How Crypto Traders Are Weathering the Bear Market
To be clear, she does not think crypto's price action is actually caused by the position of certain planets in the solar system, and she does use technical analysis in forming her trading strategies.
However, a planet’s position in the solar system at any given time is “a pretty good indicator,” Altman said to CoinDesk. “I’m very clear about it being correlation, not causation.”
For Altman, the skill of pattern recognition she developed through astrology is the same skill she uses when analyzing a candlestick chart in technical analysis.
“Both technical analysis and astrology use the same mechanism where you’re looking at past cycles to predict the future,” Altman says. “One simply has a lot of pop culture with magic around it and the other is a little more academic sounding.”
According to Altman, astrology fundamentally relies on the same critical assumption as technical analysis: History repeats and past patterns will typically hold in the future.
That's why Altman’s trading strategy includes both technical analysis and astrology.
For technical analysis, Altman uses simple indicators such as support and resistance levels as well as moving averages.
Altman’s astrology patterns used for trading bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) are “very similar to first-order logic: If this is there, then this happens. Those will influence what I plan to enter or exit that day.”
Read more: Why Trading Is Essential for Crypto
Altman has a number of different astrological indicators, including:
If “Mars or Saturn are at an exact angle to any planets in bitcoin’s charts, that’s a bearish indicator and that will last generally a few days. During that time, I will look to short.”
If the night has a full moon, represented by the white circles in the crypto chart below, then a price rally typically occurs in the following few days. Altman notes, ""We generally dump into full moons and pump out of them.""
If the night has a new moon, then the market is at a local top. New moons are represented by the purple circles in the chart below.
Altman said on average out of 10 trades made based on her use of astrology, six to seven are profitable, typically. Most of the capital she has made was through shorting on an hourly basis during bearish periods.
Even though Altman uses astrology as a way to gain a consistent edge for her trading strategy, she told CoinDesk, “You can trade very well without astrology, no doubt, but you cannot trade without TA. There’s just no way to enter and exit a trade and manage your risk without TA.”
While bitcoin cracked $20,000 on Oct. 25, the largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization had been ranging around $19,000 for the past 30 days, as CoinDesk noted on Oct. 20.
Crypto traders, who historically love volatility in the markets, are in a bit of a lull because bitcoin’s 30-day volatility was at its lowest point in almost two years last week.
Altman said, “During this time, it’s a little bit frustrating for traders, even myself, that the market is not moving a ton. So I find myself not as interested. In this period I don’t think there’s a better time to build because you’re not being swayed by euphoria.”
Read More: 9 Survival Tips for Crypto Winter
Altman is currently building what she calls an “astrology-based blockchain ecosystem” called Astrace, which is “bridging the gap between planets and profits,” according to the homepage.
Using the same first-order logic of “if-then” Altman uses, Astrace’s algorithm is intended to predict the price movements of cryptocurrencies.
According to Altman, Astrace’s algorithm analyzes planetary data, such as the position and movement of Jupiter in the Earth’s solar system, for its predictions.
Financial astrology is not new: Astrology trading software exists, and day traders have already been using astrology.
Through Astrace, Altman will be attempting to combine two areas outside the traditional finance mainstream: blockchain technology and astrology.
Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin in 2015 likened blockchain to magic. Altman, perhaps with the stars as her guide, is working at reinforcing and strengthening the bridge between astrology and crypto.
“I hope to be a journalistic documentation of how the strategy plays out, but that’ll take a few years,” she said.
Read More: 15 Ways to Stay Sane While Trading Crypto
On Jan. 22, 2022, Altman tweeted, “may 10th + october 28th. do what you will.” The tweet is currently pinned on her Twitter profile.
The crypto markets on May 10 and May 11 were in “a sea of red,” CoinDesk reported. Terra’s LUNA token dropped as much as 96%, BTC declined by roughly 6%, ETH slid 9% and Solana’s SOL token decreased by 30% in the span of 24 hours.
Altman is expecting similar market movements in the near future.
Altman’s bearish sentiment is based on several astrological indicators: the Oct. 25 solar eclipse occurring in the constellation Scorpio, and Jupiter re-entering the constellation Pisces on Oct. 28.
“This week has several astrological shifts that do hint towards quite a move towards the downside in terms of the market,"" Altman said in a video posted on TikTok and Twitter. ""It’s literally going to be a big week, like worldwide everything.”
Meanwhile, the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based market index that measures the performance of a basket of cryptocurrencies, slid 0.94% in the past 24 hours but has climbed 7.6% since Monday, Oct. 24.
Do your own research.
UPDATE (Oct. 28 07:36:42 UTC): Clarified sentence after the Bitcoin Price vs Full and New Moon Cycle chart."
243,81,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/10/28/crypto-hedge-fund-arca-nearly-doubles-sales-for-flagship-fund-despite-luna-exposure/,Crypto Hedge Fund Arca Nearly Doubles Sales for Flagship Fund Despite LUNA Exposure,"The Digital Assets Fund, which had Terra’s collapsed token as a core holding, now has $191.7 million in sales.",2022-10-28,"Arca, a crypto hedge fund with around $500 million in assets under management, came close to doubling sales of its flagship fund in one year, even after telling investors it had been exposed to the Terra ecosystem, which collapsed in May.
The Arca Digital Assets Fund, which invests in the tokens of crypto companies, had raised $191.7 million as of Oct. 24, up from $109 million at the beginning of October 2021, the firm said in a filing this week with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The number of investors in the fund, which is still open to new investors, increased from 333 to 576 between the filings.
The type of SEC filing Arca used typically includes the amount of money investors have given the fund – or sales – though some companies instead provide the fund’s assets under management, which would reflect performance. According to Arca’s Investment Adviser registration documents, the Arca Digital Assets Fund had a $234.3 million gross asset value as of June 30.
In an investor letter sent out in May, Arca revealed exposure to Terra’s native token LUNA and its stablecoin terraUSD (UST). The algorithmic stablecoin lost its peg to the dollar in a dramatic collapse, taking LUNA with it. Arca said Digital Assets held LUNA at the time of the letter, which still predicted a recovery for the Terra tokens.
Arca manages three other funds built off the framework of the Digital Assets vehicle, according to the firm’s website: The actively managed Arca Digital Yield that had Terra’s UST as a core holding, early-stage venture capital-focused Arca Endeavor and Arca NFT for non-fungible token exposure. The funds had gross asset values of $53 million, $10 million and $24.4 million at the end of June, respectively.
Arca declined to comment on this article when contacted by CoinDesk.
Read more: Stealthy Crypto Hedge Fund Edge Capital Raises $66.8M for DeFi Bets"
244,305,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/10/28/from-hair-stylist-to-crypto-trader-a-cautionary-tale/,From Hairstylist to Crypto Trader: A Cautionary Tale,"A New York hairstylist to rock stars became a technical trader in Puerto Rico. Here’s how she got rich, only to lose everything in the crypto winter. This article is part of CoinDesk’s Trading Week.",2022-10-28,"Silvia never worked a day on Wall Street. She was a hairstylist to rock stars.
She doesn’t have an MBA but she appeared in the credits of GQ.
She never sat on a bank's proprietary trading desk. She sat behind the velvet ropes in the VIP section of clubs you won’t ever get into.
She was never a professional portfolio manager. She traded crypto on her phone from exotic beaches all over the world and was so good at it, her balances at one point would shame a baby banker.
Then crypto winter came, and Silvia’s wealth disappeared.
She found herself in Puerto Rico, having chased the dream of a crypto utopia but now faced with the reality of having to start all over again. Her story is a cautionary tale of how fortunes can be won and lost thanks to how easy it is for a new breed of retail traders to take on levered positions in the wild markets of crypto.
How did she get to this point?
In the early aughts, Silvia (CoinDesk is withholding her last name for privacy) was a glamorous young stylist, living a colorful life in New York City’s East Village. Married at 21 to a photographer, her life and work intermingled. She wasn’t just working with artists, she was very much part of the arts scene and the fabled nightlife that went with it back then.
When musicians needed to a cutting-edge look for their promo pictures, it was Silvia’s haircuts they wanted. Over the years her scissors have cut the hair of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Jack Antonoff and King Princess. When high fashion magazines – Vogue, I-D, Vanity Fair, GQ Style UK, Interview and The New York Times Magazine, to name a few – did editorial shoots, Silvia was often their go-to person for hair.
A few years later, long after her marriage ended, Silvia dated a coder. It was 2015.
“He was interesting, he was smart and he was moody,” Silvia reminisced. “One day he was brooding around the house telling me that he had some serious regrets about not investing in bitcoin several years earlier. I'm very optimistic and I always see the bright side of things. So I just said, ‘Well, what makes you think you missed the boat? Maybe the boat hasn't even sailed yet.’”
That’s when Silvia opened a Coinbase account and bought a single bitcoin for less than $1,000.
The volatility was too much for Silvia’s boyfriend. “He told me to sell,” she said. “I sold at a loss, which really bummed me out.”
Shortly after, Silvia made a decision.
“I had to break up with him. What choice did I have? What I mean, come on, when you're not on the same page as a couple,] we all know where this is going. If he wasn't on the same page with crypto as I was, it was doomed for failure. So I kept investing. I moved on. I never looked back.”
By the end of 2016, bitcoin was on a tear. “I felt for the first time the euphoria of a crypto rally,” Silvia said. “It was so exciting. I decided to get an apartment in California.”
Then the crash of 2017-2018 happened and she was paying hefty rents on two apartments, one in downtown Los Angeles, the other in Manhattan. Yet not only did she keep her apartments, she held on to her crypto, never selling.
That turned out to be a winning strategy and by 2019, Silvia, ever the free spirit, was on the move again. This time running off for a few months to her ancestral hometown of Lipari, off the coast of Sicily. Toward the middle of the year, as bitcoin neared $13,000, Silvia returned to New York.
COVID-19 struck less than a year later.
“After that, I started paying attention to the prices because they were jumping around, it seemed like another exciting time was happening,” said Silvia. “Then I went in all the way headfirst.”
As bitcoin bounced from its March 12, 2020, bottom, Silvia dedicated her time to learning about trading crypto.
“I was trying to educate myself. I was learning how to set up bots. I was watching a lot of YouTube. I was on a couple of Discords. It seemed like there was a lot of enthusiasm at that point.”
She followed the gossip. She also learned technical analysis.
“I had a couple of courses that I was following,” Silvia said. “I was looking at volume indicators, RSI, things like that.” (She means the relative strength index, a technical indicator, not repetitive stress injury.)
“I can't say I was an expert, so let's be real here,” she added modestly. Nonetheless, she quickly became wary of advice from online technical analysts. “Whenever someone's talking with a lot of conviction, that's how you know it's probably going to go the other way.”
It wasn’t just the charts Silvia studied. She began reading up on projects such as Solana, Avalanche and, fatefully, Luna. Things were going so well that she bought a one-way ticket to Mexico.
“I didn't even bring my computer,” she said. “And good things happened. I was swing trading. I did very well.”
Beach life in Mexico wasn’t enough to keep Silvia from being homesick. Four months later she flew north to spend time with her parents in New Jersey. It was June 2021 and one of her sisters, a forensic accountant, had an idea.
“She suggested after all of my adventures and crypto trading through my phone and traveling through Mexico, that I go to Puerto Rico, because there was a big community there that was doing this as well,” Silvia recounts. “So I got on an airplane the next day and I went to Puerto Rico for six days. I met a lot of really interesting people. I met a really nice Colombian girl on the beach, who was very gung-ho about me moving there so we could hang out. She ended up being my friend. She helped me move. She took me around to all the stores to get things from my new apartment, which was right on the beach.”
What Silvia found in San Juan was a city that combined crypto with fun. She described it as “paradise” where everyone seemed to be talking about crypto.
“It's exciting, when things are going great – everybody's happy,” said Silvia. “There are kite-surfing classes happening on the beach and crypto business meetings also happening right on the beach. There are lots of meetups. There are lots of conventions that happen at beach clubs.”
Puerto Rico’s capital city was teeming with crypto enthusiasts of all stripes.
“There's a whole cast of characters down there that are really awesome,” she said, including New Age-y “crypto wizards” who trade based on phases of the moon. “There was actually a full moon party in front of my little apartment every month. …There's full moon parties. There's drum circles. There's recreational marijuana. Lots of Medalla beer.”
There were other types of moon worshipers, though, many of whom were in their 20s. “I actually met a lot of really enthusiastic young people who were super bullish on luna and I think about them all the time because I don't know what happened to them … Poor kids.”
As many readers know, luna was the “staking token” for the Terra protocol, backing an algorithmic stablecoin called UST. In May, the luna token could not keep UST in line with the U.S. dollar, the fiat currency it was supposed to mimic. The subsequent $60 billion collapse led to a meltdown of the crypto market.
Older folks as well could be found trading crypto in San Juan.
“Lots of retired people who had just discovered crypto who were DCAing [dollar cost averaging] at the height of the rally – probably losing their mind right now,” she quickly added as an aside. “There was a lot of people leaving everything they knew behind to move to Puerto Rico … a lot of people even ended up moving there with spouses and then things don't work out.”
Coinciding with the fantasy life on the beaches of San Juan were the fantastic gains Silvia was achieving trading crypto. Documents reviewed by CoinDesk showed stunning, quadruple-digit returns and breathtaking balances over a short period of time. At her request, we are not publishing screenshots nor revealing the precise amounts but suffice it to say, the unrealized gains were impressive – several Lamborghinis worth, by our math.
Like many other retail crypto traders, Silvia began dabbling with leverage trading and options after hearing about them from other traders. These strategies worked until they didn’t.
“I was really out of my comfort zone,” Silvia recalled.
She then learned the hard way the dangers of leverage when the market goes against a position. Luna spectacularly imploded, wiping away tens of billions of dollars in value from the market. Silvia’s unrealized fortune disappeared, as did those of many others trading alongside her in Puerto Rico. The mood shift was palpable.
“You could just tell that the morale had changed,” she said. “ There was an era of sadness.”
Silvia and others were crushed. “Lots of sleepless nights,” she remembered. “I heard of a man losing nearly $80 million in luna, of all things.”
Earlier in September, Silvia finally got her things out of her place in San Juan and returned to the New York area. She has the tools of her trade – a collection of scissors, combs, hair dryers and makeup – that paid for the initial capital she used to invest in crypto.
Looking back, she marveled at her story. Being a woman day trader made her stand out in the male-dominated crypto markets, but so did her life story.
“I think I am a little bit of an unusual story,” she reflected. “I don't think there's that many artists who were involved in crypto from an early stage, who can say they packed their bags and moved to a crypto Mecca.”
Silvia is still HODLing bitcoin and is optimistic on ether. “That’s my jam.”
“I’m going to be in crypto forever. I’m not getting out. Let’s be real. I’m a true believer.”"
245,32,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/01/dogecoin-led-the-pack-among-cryptocurrencies-in-october-with-17-times-bitcoins-gains/,Dogecoin Led the Pack Among Cryptocurrencies in October With 17 Times Bitcoin's Gains,"Elon Musk’s Twitter $44 billion deal drove speculation in the Shiba Inu-themed meme coin, which more than doubled in price during the month.",2022-11-01,"Give that DOGE a bone.
Dogecoin (DOGE), the canine-inspired meme token often associated with electric-vehicle-tycoon-turned-Twitter-owner Elon Musk, was the top performer in October among the 150 digital assets in the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI).
The DOGE price rose 101% during the month, vastly outpacing the 7% climb in the CMI overall. Bitcoin (BTC), the largest cryptocurrency by market value, was up 5.5% on the month, while ether (ETH) gained 18%.
Digital-asset analysts attributed the big jump in DOGE to Musk’s dramatic $44 billion takeover of Twitter – ostensibly tied to speculation that the deal might somehow, eventually, bring value or utility to the Dogecoin blockchain and its eponymous cryptocurrency.
During a May 2021 appearance on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live,” Musk used the line, “Call me the Dogefather.” And in January 2021, Musk used Twitter to send out an image of himself holding up a Shiba Inu puppy – the dog breed that inspired dogecoin.
Musk at one point suggested – perhaps in jest, perhaps not – charging 0.1 DOGE per tweet.
Dogecoin rose “on the back of excitement over Elon Musk's takeover of Twitter,” the digital-asset investment fund QCP Capital wrote Monday in a note on Telegram. “Musk's tweets have created price swings in the past, even suggesting using DOGE as payment for a Twitter subscription.”
Katie Talati, head of research at crypto asset-management firm Arca Funds, said dogecoin’s recent trading spikes “have very much been speculation-driven,” similar to last year’s frenzy in meme stocks.
“It's the same way as people trading GameStop and AMC,” Talati said. “It’s a token that drove a lot of retail interest.”
Among the CMI index constituents, Mask Network’s MASK token was the second-best performer in October, with a 96% return, followed by the decentralized crypto exchange SushiSwap’s SUSHI token, which surged 45%. SushiSwap’s decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) approved a restructuring last week.
Ether’s monthly return was fueled partly by a short squeeze last week. The cryptocurrency has benefited from fresh speculation following the Ethereum blockchain’s Merge last month, which shifted the network to a more energy-efficient “proof-of-stake” network. The change also drastically reduced the pace at which the blockchain is producing new tokens – implying less overall supply.
Bitcoin’s return during the month was more muted, but bulls were enthused by its price jump above $20,000 for the first time in 18 days.
Talati attributed ETH’s outperformance over BTC to “market structure,” given that more traders had been betting against ETH than BTC – and not an indication of“anything fundamentally shifting.”
“Bitcoin doesn't really have a strong narrative right now, whereas ETH still does have the Merge narrative,” she said.
Rally (RLY), an ERC-20 token, was the biggest loser in the CMI, falling 33% in October.
The insolvent crypto lending platform Celsius Network’s native token CEL lost 27%, amid reports that its former CEO, Alex Mashinsky, withdrew $10 million in the weeks before the company froze customer accounts.
Another big loser was Terra Luna Classic’s LUNC token, which also lost 31% during the month – potentially dashing hopes among traders who had hoped for a recovery following the network’s collapse in May.
LUNA, the native coin of the Terra 2.0 blockchain, the fork that emerged from Terra Classic, slid around 1% during the month. Its controversial co-founder, Do Kwon, denied claims in October that he is on the run from law enforcement, despite Interpol issuing a “red notice” for his arrest in September. Earlier this month, Terra’s developers attempted to revive the LUNA ecosystem and increase user activity with the token.
What’s ahead in November? Talati said the World Cup could spark interest in sports-fan tokens like Chiliz (CHZ), from “the advertising perspective.”
She said she “wouldn't be surprised” to see crypto ads on banners around the stadium during matches – similar to Coinbase putting up a QR code in an ad during the Super Bowl in February.
Dogecoin likely will continue to ride waves of speculation. “At the end of the day, there aren't like financial applications built on top of it,” Talati said."
246,33,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/07/open-interest-in-ftt-futures-doubles-to-203-million-as-binance-decides-to-sell-ftxs-native-token/,Open Interest in FTT Futures Doubles as Binance Moves to Liquidate FTX Token Holdings,"Open interest has doubled to $203 million, with bearish bets in demand, as Binance's entry into the FTX-Alameda drama has caused panic among investors.",2022-11-07,"Traders are scurrying to hedge against a potential slide in crypto exchange FTX's native token, FTT, in the wake of Binance's decision to liquidate FTT holdings and controversy surrounding Alameda's balance sheet.
Open interest, or the dollar amount dedicated to futures and perpetual futures tied to FTT, has more than doubled from $87.56 million to $203 million since early Asian hours, reaching a 12-month high, according to CoinGlass.
The funding rate, or the cost of holding bullish long positions or bearish short positions, has dropped sharply to an annualized -36%, per data provided by Matrixport Technologies. A negative funding rate implies shorts or bears have the upper hand and are willing to pay funding to longs to keep their positions open.
The combination of rising open interest and the negative funding rate suggests traders are taking short positions on FTT.
""FTT’s funding rate has dropped to -36% annualized as opening interest has doubled. Many new shorts seem to have been put on,"" Markus Thielen, head of research at Strategy at Matrixport, said. ""Trading volumes in the FTT spot market has increased from $58 million to $3 billion.""
Griffin Ardern, volatility trader from crypto asset management firm Blofin, said, ""Last week, Alameda's balance sheet was questioned, and Binance also announced that it would liquidate FTT and other assets related to the FTX exchange. That appears to have caused a panic among investors, who chose to hedge their assets such as FTT.""
""FTT holders have to stop losses by shorting perps,"" Ardern added. The token was down 4% on the day at $22 at press time, according to CoinDesk data.
On Sunday, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao tweeted that he will be liquidating the remaining FTT tokens acquired as a part of the exit from Alameda's sister company FTX last year.
""Due to recent revelations that have come to light, we have decided to liquidate any remaining FTT on our books,"" Zhao tweeted, referring to CoinDesk's scoop about Alameda holding $3.66 billion worth of unlocked or illiquid FTT tokens on its balance sheet.
""Liquidating our FTT is just post-exit risk management, learning from LUNA,"" Zhao added.
Terra's LUNA token (now known as LUNC) crashed in May, destroying billions of dollars in investor wealth.
According to crypto exchange Phemex, Alameda owns over 50% of the FTT token, and a continued slide in the cryptocurrency's price could have market-wide ramifications.
""As the price decreases, Alameda will be the only buyer. The main takeaway is despite a recent price spike in cryptocurrencies, if there’s another potential big-time player getting margin called, it could reignite fear that a LUNA-type situation could occur before the end of 2022,"" Phemex said in a daily market note.
Read: FTT-Alameda Drama Weighs on Market as Asia Begins its Week"
247,289,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/08/the-story-of-sam-bankman-frieds-backroom-deal-with-binances-cz/,The Story of Sam Bankman-Fried’s Backroom Deal With Binance’s CZ,"Binance, after exacerbating a bank run on rival crypto exchange FTX, offered to buy out the jewel in SBF's crown.",2022-11-08,"We may never know how close Sam Bankman-Fried’s (SBF) crypto empire came to collapse, or the collateral damage that would have caused for the industry, but we do know the principal risks at play. And sadly, it’s the same issues Bitcoin was created over a decade ago to solve: financial self-dealing, human hubris and untransparent markets.
What just happened: Binance, the world’s largest crypto exchange by volume, has agreed to buy a competitor it had initially nurtured and then almost tanked, FTX. Binance CEO Changpeng ""CZ"" Zhao confirmed the deal on Twitter, saying the two exchanges signed a non-binding letter of intent.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
The deal, still subject to due diligence processes and not completed, is a stopgap measure to save SBF’s crypto exchange from insolvency. It will likely calm markets that had been rocked by a public rift between two crypto titans so well known as to go simply by their initials.
This is a meteoric fall for SBF – the once-beloved poster boy of crypto who plastered his exchange’s name across stadiums and posed for glossy magazine spreads – who just months ago was touted as the “J.P. Morgan” of crypto for his efforts in backstopping bankrupt blockchain businesses like BlockFi.
""Things have come full circle, and FTX.com’s first, and last, investors are the same: we have come to an agreement on a strategic transaction with Binance for FTX.com (pending DD etc.),"" Bankman-Fried tweeted Tuesday, using shorthand for “due diligence.”
Keeping with the full circle motif, it’s worth noting SBF always saw blockchain more as a means to an end. He entered crypto after a few years as a Jane Street quant, with the stated aim of making as much money to gain as much influence as possible. That would be a fine mentality in crypto had SBF any apparent love of the tools and protocols that made him rich.
Instead, SBF, a political mega-donor who has spent $50 million during the past U.S. election cycle, has used his influence to push for regulations that ruffled his customers and competitors’ feathers. He was a vocal proponent of the DCCPA bill that would create a brokerage-like licensing system for decentralized finance and argued against financial privacy.
That’s what he said in public. For CZ, the bigger concern was what was said behind closed doors, “[W]e won’t support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs,” the Binance CEO tweeted this weekend. This was CZ’s attempt at being “transparent,” he said, explaining a large transaction of over $500 million FTT tokens to Binance made the day before.
He announced Binance would be selling these tokens into the open market, and drew a worrying comparison to LUNA, another project Binance was early to back that later collapsed after a bank run. CZ was seizing the moment caused by market uncertainty, after Alameda Research’s financials were leaked to CoinDesk.
The links between FTX and its sister firm, the hedge fund Alameda, have historically been unclear beyond that both were founded by SBF. The leaked financial statement showed that the majority of Alameda’s assets were illiquid or locked altcoins – many of which SBF had a stake in including FTT, SOL and SRM (the token from the Serum decentralized exchange Bankman-Fried co-founded).
Read more: Solana Falls and Speculation Centers on Links to Sam Bankman-Fried’s FTX, Alameda
“Alameda will never be able to cash in a significant portion of FTT to pay back its debts,” Mike Burgersburg, an independent market analyst for Dirty Bubble Media, which was early to call the collapse of Terra/LUNA, said.
Bank runs can be self-fulling prophecies. Although several analysts said it was unlikely that either FTX or Alameda would suffer a margin call, investors began pulling funds, concerned their capital would be locked up in bankruptcy proceedings like with neobanks Celsius Network and Voyager Digital.
Bankman-Fried and Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison did what they could to calm investors’ nerves, offering to mitigate a steep selloff of FTT by offering CZ $22 per token. Ellison said the leaked financial document did not account for another $10 billion Alameda allegedly had, while SBF said that client funds were “safe” and never rehypothecated into other crypto deals.
On-chain analytics showed a more worrying story. Stablecoins and other assets were draining from FTX. Before the Binance buyout was announced today, traders had pulled all the bitcoin FTX had off the platform, according to Coinglass. Alameda was unlocking funds from various DeFi platforms to send ETH to FTX, seemingly unconcerned with steep withdrawal fees.
FTX users began tweeting about delays in moving funds from the platform, while BitDAO asked Alameda to prove that it still held the 100 million BIT tokens the trading firm acquired last November, and began to vote whether to offload the 3.36 million FTT tokens BitDAO earned in that deal.
Throughout this process, industry commentators chided SBF for the exchange’s lack of transparency and called for him to show proof of reserves for both FTX and Alameda. “It’s not much to ask, critics note, given SBF’s recent grandstanding about the need for more regulation and better governance in crypto,” Fortune’s Jeff John Roberts wrote.
Yesterday, it became clear that Binance would reject SBF’s offers to sell its FTT tokens over-the-counter to minimize the sell-off. Instead, it would hold these assets – the fruit of what CZ called a “divorce” – like a Sword of Damocles. Bellwether cryptos like BTC and ETH, trading sideways yesterday, began to slip in overnight trading.
It was clear the contagion would be severe if SBF’s empire fell. Crypto is tied-up in intricate knots, and once it frays the whole ecosystem can unravel – like after the collapse of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital. A stablecoin called magic internet money (MIM), capitalized primarily with FTT, lost its peg to the dollar.
See also: Binance CEO Zhao Considering Buying Banks: Report
At least with open financial systems like MIM investors knew at what price they would be liquidated. FTX is a blackbox, and people only have the information SBF chose to reveal. Many began to read Bankman-Fried’s retweets of unconfirmed airdrops for FTX users that kept their capital on the exchange as signs of desperation.
“[R]egardless of how it ends, it’s another blow against the industry (and financial institutions in general) simply for a lack of voluntary transparency, but it’s another giant check mark for the transparency of blockchain data and the skilled researchers trained to uncover, read and interpret this data,” Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at crypto hedge fund Arca, said.
And so, we’re back at the beginning. It should come as no relief that SBF and CZ were apparently able to come to terms. It’s just another backroom deal."
248,297,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/09/these-four-key-charts-shed-light-on-the-ftx-exchanges-spectacular-collapse/,These Four Key Charts Shed Light on the FTX Exchange's Spectacular Collapse,Nansen’s on-chain metrics suggest several reasons why FTX decided to sell itself to Binance.,2022-11-09,"Speculation surrounding Sam Bankman Fried’s crypto exchange FTX grew so intense that the firm agreed to sell itself to bigger rival Binance. Blockchain data offers a fresh perspective on FTX’s liquidity crunch, illustrating how the drama escalated so quickly.
Comprehending why Binance agreed to buy FTX today means understanding FTX’s liquidity woes.
One of the earliest red flags came from the top 10 addresses by withdrawal volume on FTX. These addresses, which include Nexo, Circle and Jump Trading, have withdrawn a whopping $1.87 billion in the past seven days, Nansen data suggests.
Nexo, a crypto lending platform that has more than five million users worldwide, as stated on the company’s homepage, has withdrawn more than $408 million worth of ether (ETH) from FTX. The blockchain explorer website Etherscan confirms Nansen’s data, with Nexo transferring ETH in large volumes through several transactions. Here are several Nexo transactions out of FTX with values of at least 4,999 ETH: Tx1, Tx2, Tx3, Tx4, Tx5, Tx6, Tx7, Tx8 and Tx9.
Market participants also have withdrawn $121 million USDC from FTX to Circle’s deposit contract address, data from Nansen and Etherscan suggests. (Nansen shows that $1.15 billion USDC has left Coinbase in the past 24 hours, reflecting of users taking tokens off exchanges.)
Data from Coinglass reveals that in the past 24 hours, the number of bitcoins on FTX dropped by 19,941.64 BTC to 36.14 as of press time.
Understanding the volatility stemming from the FTX drama continues with stablecoin outflows. According to Nansen data, in the past seven days starting on Monday, Nov. 7, FTX led all exchanges in stablecoin outflows. Some $451 million worth of stablecoins have left FTX, more than the combined outflows of KuCoin, Crypto.com and OKX.
Specifically, FTX’s holdings of USDC and USDT have nosedived dramatically. Between Friday, Nov. 4 and Tuesday, Nov. 8, Nansen data states that FTX’s USDC holdings dropped about $137 million, roughly 84%, while its USDT holdings dropped from $198 million to $68 million.
According to CryptoQuant, FTX’s stablecoin reserve stands at roughly $156 million currently, down more than 78% since Oct. 24.
FTX’s stablecoin reserve is at its lowest levels in a year. Some market participants have been concerned because one of the initial signs that foreshadowed the collapse of Terra Luna was when UST deposits on the Anchor lending protocol started dropping rapidly.
While the chart shows a large outflow of stablecoins from KuCoin, KuCoin’s net stablecoin change is actually zero. On Nov. 5, Kucoin conducted a simple swap of USDT between the Ethereum and Tron network. 300 million ERC-20 USDT left KuCoin, and 300 million TRC-20 USDT entered into KuCoin. The swap was “because of users’ demand” and was “not a decision related to FTX,” wrote KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu to CoinDesk via Twitter.
Nansen data only shows Ethereum-based stablecoins currently, excluding ones on the Tron network. According to data from CoinMetrics, 34.1 billion USDT is supplied on the Tron network, 1.8 billion more than the USDT supplied on Ethereum.
Additionally, prolific and active cryptocurrency traders have been transferring their wealth out of FTX, according to data from blockchain analytics firm Nansen. Over the last 24 hours, the top 10 withdrawal wallets categorized by Nansen as belonging to “smart money” have removed about $246.6 million worth of tokens.
Nansen considers a wallet to be “smart money” if it meets at least one of several test, including:
It is known to belong to an investment fund
It has made at least $100,000 by providing liquidity to the decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols, SushiSwap and Uniswap, excluding so-called impermanent loss
It is in the top 300 addresses ranked by realized profit, considering only on-chain trades that occurred on decentralized exchanges (DEXs)
Jump Trading, which focuses on ecosystem building, quant research and trading, has withdrawn $118 million, more than the next six addresses combined.
Other notable smart money withdrawals include asset management firm Arca and SBF’s trading firm Alameda Research. Alameda Research transferred 92 million BIT (roughly $35 million) out of FTX and into their own address.
The chart above shows the daily price and volume of the FTX exchange’s FTT token, which grants holders a discount on trading fees on the FTX marketplace. Following CoinDesk’s disclosure on Nov. 2, FTT recently slid roughly 79%, with its volume jumping dramatically.
The data in the chart only covers volume on the FTX exchange, so it may not cover the entire FTT trading volume across all exchanges. The chart shows that the recent revelations triggered a flurry of interest in the token and that the drop in FTT was accompanied by significant price discovery.
UPDATE (Nov. 9, 17:07:07 UTC): Updated with information in the second chart section about stablecoin outflow by clarifying KuCoin's net stablecoin change, added quotes from KuCoin CEO Johnny Lyu elucidating Nansen's capabilities, including a statistic from CoinMetrics, and adding more context to the actual chart."
249,292,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/09/8-days-in-november-what-led-to-ftxs-sudden-collapse/,8 Days in November: What Led to FTX’s Sudden Collapse,"Financier and influencer Sam Bankman-Fried flew exceptionally high during the pandemic-driven crypto bull market. Here’s what led to his fall, and why it matters for the industry’s future.",2022-11-09,"The past week has seen a dizzying downward spiral for Sam Bankman-Fried’s huge crypto empire. Bankman-Fried’s FTX crypto exchange has paused withdrawals, and a tentative bailout from rival Binance appears to be kaput. That could put depositor funds at risk, and certainly spells a major setback for not only Bankman-Fried but for the cryptocurrency industry as a whole.
These downfalls aren’t rare in crypto, which is subject to extreme boom-bust cycles. But FTX and Bankman-Fried are unique in the stature they achieved before self-immolating. Over the past three years, FTX has come to be widely regarded as a reputable exchange, despite not submitting to U.S. regulation. Bankman-Fried has himself become globally influential, thanks to his thoughts on cryptocurrency regulation and his financial support for U.S. electoral candidates – not necessarily in that order.
These narratives about both FTX and Bankman-Fried are now clearly dead in the water, given recent evidence that everything was not as it seemed at the exchange, or at Bankman-Fried’s other firm, Alameda Research.
The questions to answer in the coming days will be: What happened? And why did almost nobody see it coming?
What follows is the most important context for understanding this ongoing story. That includes the sudden crisis of confidence driven by revelations about Sam Bankman-Fried’s accounting practices; the added shock of the unwind thanks to Bankman-Fried’s golden-boy reputation; and the complex role of competitor Binance and its founder, Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, in the crisis.
Facts first uncovered by CoinDesk played a major role in the events of the past week. On Nov. 2, reporter Ian Allison published findings that roughly $5.8 billion out of $14.6 billion of assets on the balance sheet at Alameda Research, based on then-current valuations, were linked to FTX’s exchange token, FTT.
This finding, based on leaked internal documents, was explosive because of the very close relationship between Alameda and FTX. Both were founded by Bankman-Fried, and there has been significant anxiety about the extent and nature of their fraternal dealings. The FTT token was essentially created from thin air by FTX, inviting questions about the real-world, open-market value of FTT tokens held in reserve by affiliated entities.
Negative speculation about a financial institution can be a self-fulfilling prophecy, triggering withdrawals out of a sense of uncertainty and leading to the very liquidity problems that were feared. Since publication of Allison’s initial story, CoinDesk reporters have been advised to practice extreme caution and diligence in reporting about FTT and other matters at Alameda and FTX.
But sometimes straightforward facts are enough to trigger an entirely justified bank run. Seemingly because of their known close ties, worries about Alameda’s balance sheet translated into a rapidly accelerating mass exodus from FTX. The exchange saw $6 billion in withdrawals in the 72 hours before things reached a head on the morning of Nov. 8, according to internal messages seen by Reuters.
According to Coinglass data, that for a time left FTX with a balance of, unbelievably, just one bitcoin. That has now rebounded to 36 BTC, compared to more than half a million BTC each held by Coinbase and Binance.
Read More: FTX Balances Tumbled 87% in 5 Days in Epic Crypto Deposit Run, Data Shows
This rush to the exits reportedly led Bankman-Fried and his team to begin frantically shopping for an acquisition partner, approaching a variety of potential partners before Binance entered the picture.
It remains worryingly unclear, though, exactly why even such a dramatic rush for the exits would have led FTX to seek its own bailout. The exchange promised users that it would not speculate with cryptocurrencies held in their accounts. But if that policy was followed, there should have been no pause to withdrawals, nor any balance sheet gap to fill. One possible explanation comes from Coinmetrics analyst Lucas Nuzzi, who has presented what he says is evidence that FTX transferred funds to Alameda in September, perhaps as a loan to backstop Alameda’s losses.
The crisis also seemed to validate anxieties about what Alameda’s immense holdings of FTT-linked assets meant for the stability of Bankman-Fried’s empire. The market value of the token is down more than 80% over the past week.
Late in the day on Nov. 8, after the announcement of a tentative deal with Binance, FTX said it had officially suspended all crypto withdrawals.
As striking as the numbers are, the greater significance of FTX’s collapse may be in how it upends a long-running narrative about SBF himself. As apparent frauds like Terra and Celsius unwound in the first half of 2022, triggering contagion across other crypto entities, Bankman-Fried was often seen both as a sane and sober counterpoint, and as a well-resourced backstop ready to rescue the entire ecosystem.
Bankman-Fried’s endeavors included loans to or moves to acquire faltering crypto lender BlockFi, lender Voyager Digital and Anthony Scarammucci’s Skybridge Capital hedge fund. Alameda Research also led a funding round for the Facebook-linked Aptos blockchain in late July, at a time when investment funds were drying up.
In his role as a funder of last resort, Bankman-Fried was frequently described, including by CoinDesk, as “the J.P. Morgan of crypto” – referring not to the Jamie Dimon-run investment bank, but to its robber-baron founder. Twice around the turn of the 19th century, in 1893 and 1907, Morgan stepped in to support emerging financial markets through a crisis with his own funds.
But there have been increasing signs that this framing was, at best, oversimplified. Bankman-Fried teased many more deals than actually went through, for instance backing out after a tentative move to acquire Celsius. Many of these deals arguably flowed money back to FTX or Alameda. And some of the headline numbers may have exaggerated exactly how much real money was on the line.
All of this is particularly relevant because of the profile Bankman-Fried has worked to build as a political influencer, both on general policy and crypto regulation specifically. Though the precise connection to this week’s crisis is a bit opaque, Bankman-Fried faced a wave of blowback in late October over a series of crypto regulation proposals. He was also a major donor to the U.S. Democratic Party.
By one preliminary estimate, this week’s disaster means Bankman-Fried is no longer a billionaire personally. That doesn’t entirely preclude future political influence via donations, but it will certainly constrain him. More significant is that Bankman-Fried’s credibility as a policy advisor, on finance or anything else, has been left in tatters – a washout for his “effective altruism” agenda.
Easily the most fascinating element of the current debacle is the role of Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, founder and head of Binance, the world’s largest centralized crypto exchange by volume. CZ and Bankman-Fried have been occasional collaborators over the past few years, but recent interactions have suggested rising interpersonal and business tension.
Zhao and Binance also materially contributed to FTX’s meltdown – though it’s unclear whether that was his intent. Apparently in reaction to CoinDesk’s reporting about the predominance of FTT on Alameda’s balance sheet, Zhao on Nov. 6 announced that Binance would liquidate a large remaining balance of FTT tokens distributed to it as part of a prior sell-off of FTX equity.
In a truly bizarre move, Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison quickly and very publicly offered Zhao an over-the-counter deal to buy the tokens at $22 each. That’s confounding both because the public offer seemed to expose anxiety within Alameda about the market impact of Binance’s sale, and because Ellison’s offer was slightly below FTT’s public exchange price at the time – not exactly much incentive to help Alameda out.
Zhao initially framed Binance’s sell-off as benignly as possible, insisting, “Regarding any speculation as to whether this is a move against a competitor, it is not.”
But later the same day, Zhao muddied that claim with a more barbed statement.
“Liquidating our FTT is just post-exit risk management, learning from LUNA,” he wrote. “We gave support before, but we won't pretend to make love after divorce. We are not against anyone. But we won't support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs. Onwards.”
The comparison to LUNA is particularly venomous, given that its creator, Do Kwon, is currently an international fugitive evading charges of financial fraud in South Korea. Zhao’s allusion to lobbying efforts also give the impression that there’s something personal at play here.
Zhao may have taken a dim view of a since-deleted tweet by Bankman-Fried that seemed to cast aspersions on Zhao’s Chinese ancestry. Zhao is Canadian, and has for many years bridled at suggestions that Binance is a Chinese firm.
All of this has led to speculation that Zhao has been playing four-dimensional chess against Bankman-Fried and FTX. Zhao himself later described his announcement of a large FTT sale as “the straw that broke the camel’s back,” undermining confidence in FTX at a key moment. Zhao has denied ill intent or calculation, but this was hard to credit as of Nov. 8, with Binance poised to acquire a competitor after making moves that seriously weakened it.
Then came more CoinDesk reporting Wednesday morning, since confirmed by other outlets, that Binance would likely back out of the deal after a preliminary examination of FTX’s finances. It may be some time until we fully understand exactly what Zhao saw when he got a peek behind the curtain – but it’s probably nothing good."
250,298,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/14/lets-actually-commit-to-proofs-of-reserve-this-time-okay/,"Let’s Actually Commit to Proofs of Reserve This Time, OK?","Requiring exchanges to show they have assets to match their liabilities would improve transparency and help to win back public trust in crypto, says Nic Carter.",2022-11-14,"I’m not going to mince words. The fraud-driven collapse of FTX and Alameda Research is, in my estimation, the worst single event in the crypto industry since its inception.
Even though as a share of overall crypto market cap the impact may have been less in relative terms than Mt. Gox was, the fallout will be more significant. For one, no one really thought of Gox as a particularly credible institution. It wasn't “institutional” in any way.
Mark Karpeles, who was the CEO of Mt. Gox, didn’t go on a charm offensive in Washington, D.C., to win favor from politicians. Mt. Gox didn’t air Super Bowl ads. Celebrities didn’t line up to endorse the platform. And crucially, the number of users worldwide were much fewer.
CoinDesk columnist Nic Carter is partner at Castle Island Ventures, a public blockchain-focused venture fund based in Cambridge, Mass. He is also the co-founder of Coin Metrics, a blockchain analytics startup.
FTX, by contrast, served millions of users worldwide. It catered to numerous funds, institutions and startups. It was aggressive in promoting itself to mainstream users. Its enigmatic CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, known as SBF, practically lived in Washington, charming members of Congress and financial regulators. The exchange was widely considered one of the most trusted and credible institutions in the industry. The apparent fraud and collapse was therefore particularly catastrophic, because it happened so quickly and took almost everyone by surprise.
The fallout will linger for years. Silver linings are few. I will admit to having breathed a sigh of relief at SBF’s discrediting. His agenda was fundamentally hostile to DeFi (decentralized finance); his interests seemed to extend only to obtaining a regulatory baptism for his firm and no one else. He was an unrepresentative and non-aligned ambassador in Washington, and I’m glad he will no longer be representing us in policy conversations.
The other considerable bright spot to emerge from this mess is the renewed industry interest in proofs of reserve. The more serious among us have been contemplating how we can win back trust among end users and regulators. Some in Washington will naturally call for exchanges to be more heavily regulated, under the guise of consumer protection. Some crypto natives are redoubling their efforts on DeFi and DEXs (decentralized exchanges), considering CeFi (centralized finance) to be a lost cause. And Bitcoin maxis are bleating to no one in particular about how all centralized institutions are frauds.
None of those three approaches makes sense to me. Bitcoin preachers will never convince everyone to adopt a rigorous self-custodial setup. There are no indications whatsoever of their imminent glorious hyper-bitcoinized, non-intermediated future. Centralized custodians, lenders and exchanges have existed for over a decade and will continue to be useful and necessary. This is not out of step with a core Bitcoin ethos either – software developer Hal Finney famously advocated for a “free banking” approach to Bitcoin.
Listen: NLW – Why Proof-of-Reserves Now
The pro-regulatory crowd would throw the baby out with the bathwater. A crypto industry that replicates the legacy banking sector would achieve little. It’s critical we do everything to preserve the interoperability of the crypto sector and eliminate barriers to entry and regulatory capture. Elevating a handful of centralized exchanges and raising barriers to entry for competitors, as SBF sought to do, would make it far easier for regulators to capture the entire industry by tightly managing a few choke points.
And lastly the DeFi- and DEXs-only crowd misses the mark. Pure DeFi isn’t without reproach – Terra/LUNA could, for instance, be called DeFi. Hacks and rugpulls are plentiful. And, of course, DeFi users need to hold their assets in self-custody, which, while being the premise of DeFi, is a nonstarter for the vast majority of people.
The fact is, while the average user should have the ability to withdraw funds and transact with them outside of an intermediated system, most users won't choose to do that. We can admit the reality that many users will always prefer intermediation, while pushing to improve the quality of these intermediaries.
That’s where proof of reserve comes in. Proofs of reserve harmonize the innate transparency of blockchains with the convenience of centralized custodians. The procedure generally refers to a demonstration undertaken by exchanges proving that they possess client assets to match outstanding liabilities.
There was a minor wave of proof of reserve enthusiasm post-Gox, which immediately fizzled out, and a slight renaissance starting summer 2021 with BitMEX’s proof of reserves and liabilities, followed by Kraken’s effort this past February. Things didn’t move very fast thereafter, despite my ardent lobbying. Reform must wait for a crisis, it appears.
Post-FTX, a new enthusiasm for proofs of reserve has emerged. A number of exchanges – at a minimum Binance, Gate.io, KuCoin, Poloniex, Bitget, Huobi, OKX, Deribit and Bybit – have indicated their attention to publish proofs of reserve. A few such as Crypto.com, Bitfinex and Binance have taken the intermediate step of releasing wallet addresses as a crude proof of assets. But this is incomplete without corresponding liabilities.
The asset side is trivial: It can involve publishing wallet addresses or signing a transaction. The tricky part is matching the assets with the outstanding liabilities. To achieve that, an exchange adds up all user balances, anonymizes them and publishes the data in Merkelized format. From there, depositors can verify that they are included in the liability set. If enough do this, they can have strong confidence that the exchange isn’t cheating by omitting liabilities. And if the process happens under the eye of an auditor, users can gain additional assurance that no liabilities are being excluded.
Read more: George Kaloudis – All Custodial Crypto Exchanges Should Adopt Proof-of-Reserve Programs, but Even That Isn’t Enough
Cynics and Bitcoin maxis tend to protest that proofs of reserve aren’t perfectly trustless. Of course, there aren't – nothing is – but critics would sacrifice the perfect at the altar of the good. There has been a brouhaha in recent days about major exchanges engaging in asset snapshots with purportedly borrowed funds, and many are using this to write off proofs of reserve entirely. (Some of these accusations were later shown to be unfounded.) Writing off proofs of reserve because some weak implementations weren’t credible is the equivalent of ordering Little Caesars pizza and assuming all Italian food is garbage.
A point-in-time asset snapshot without the supervision of an auditor or a cash-flow analysis proves very little. The proofs of reserve I and others talk about involves ongoing, frequent attestations, ideally supervised by an auditor. In its more complete form, it provides very strong assurances.
Recalcitrant exchanges have few excuses left. Compared with the first rush for proofs of reserve in 2014/15, there are far more resources available today. The 2021 practitioner’s guide to proof of reserve, published by myself and a few other collaborators by the Digital Chamber, offers a full picture.
The BitMEX proofs of reserve open-source code and a guide to replicating the procedure is available. And to the critics who bemoan the lack of accounting firms with expertise in facilitating the process – that is no longer true. Top 20 audit firm Armanino has been undertaking these engagements for years, and it isn't the only one.
During a bull market, I can understand why exchanges wouldn't bother competing based on credibility. But in a time of consolidation, retaining user trust is absolutely vital. This procedure allows exchanges to be far more transparent than their TradFi counterparts that cannot independently verify user assets held.
Regulators, I expect, will come to demand it. Already proofs of reserve received a mention in Wyoming’s SPDI (special purpose depository institution) rules, and I imagine it will appear in more legislation soon.
Read more: David Z. Morris – Nic Carter vs. The Bitcoin Maximalists
Now with so many exchanges – including market leader Binance – embracing the procedure, the few not participating will raise eyebrows. When pressed, Coinbase’s Emilie Choi protested that the exchange is already audited and that this should be a sufficient substitute. But if Coinbase cares about the integrity of the industry, it will undertake the procedure anyway. I would much rather depositors have the option to choose between a variety of public and non-public exchanges, all doing PoR, rather than being limited to a handful of public exchanges doing quarterly disclosures through the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Let’s be clear. A proof of reserve wouldn’t have “stopped” FTX, Quadriga or Mt. Gox. All three were insolvent for long periods of time because of either fraud or hacks. But in a world where proofs of reserve become the norm, their refusal or inability to perform a proof of reserve would have stuck out like a sore thumb and alerted users that something was likely awry. So proofs of reserve, at the industry scale, works via negativa – it’s most telling if you don’t do it.
In the next few months and years, as proofs of reserve become more common throughout the industry, I hope and expect that we will apply the same scrutiny to the remaining holdouts."
251,213,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/14/morgan-stanley-says-there-is-still-much-leverage-in-the-crypto-ecosystem/,Morgan Stanley Says There Is Still Much Leverage in the Crypto Ecosystem,"Retail investors may start to sell if bitcoin trades below $10,000, the report said.",2022-11-14,"The collapse of FTX and Alameda has sparked another round of deleveraging in crypto markets, and that’s likely to spur more “crypto quantitative tightening,” Morgan Stanley (MS) said in a research report Friday.
Creditors are selling digital assets to cover their risks, adding to market volatility, and are likely to reveal their exposures in the next few weeks. The spillover to equity markets so far is limited because crypto firms mainly lend to each other, the report said.
Morgan Stanley says many events have led to the latest bout of volatility in the crypto market, but the key question is “how to value crypto tokens that offer a service but don’t offer the token holder a stake in the company (like equity) or a claim on assets in the case of a default (like debt.)”
In a bull market using such a token as collateral to leverage seems fine, but the strategy is risky in a bear market, the bank added.
The bear market in bitcoin started almost a year ago and it has been mainly institutions who have been selling, the note said. Retail investors are still holding on to their positions.
With bitcoin (BTC) now trading under $18,000, there isn’t a clear technical support level before $12,500, the bank said. It estimates that anyone that bought or received BTC in the past 12-18 months has an average breakeven price of around $45,000.
“Retail investors may start to sell if BTC trades below $10,000,” it added.
Decentralized finance (DeFi) lending is proving to be resilient at the moment, as it was in June following the Terra/LUNA collapse, because it is over collateralized. “CeFi lending is where there were problems,” the note added.
DeFi is an umbrella term for a variety of financial applications carried out on blockchains.
Read more: JPMorgan Sees Wave of Crypto Deleveraging From FTX’s Woes"
252,211,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/ftx-fallout-adds-urgency-to-south-koreas-push-for-crypto-regulations-report/,FTX Fallout Adds Urgency to South Korea’s Push for Crypto Regulations: Report,An official at the Financial Services Commission says that unfair trade needs to be regulated.,2022-11-15,"Regulators stressed the need to have a regulatory framework in place during a meeting of South Korea’s National Assembly, given the failure of multi-billion dollar cryptocurrency exchange FTX, CoinDesk Korea reported on Monday.
The grouping was a follow-up to an emergency meeting held to protect investors after the collapse of Terraform Labs in May, the report said.
“As the market fell due to global austerity, Terra-Luna, Celsius and FTX failed one after another, making it a year of declining trust,” Lee Myung-soon, senior vice president of the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS), said at the meeting.
Kim So-young, vice chair at the Financial Services Commission (FSC) added that considering the urgency of protecting users, it was better to have minimum necessary regulatory standards in place and add to them, rather than waiting for international standards.
The FSS is responsible for examining and supervising financial institutions, under the broad oversight of the FSC which makes financial policy.
Kim said that the FTX crisis revealed the need to have regulatory mechanisms to prevent unfair trade and ensure virtual asset service providers fulfil obligations to protect user assets, and to forbid service providers from issuing tokens.
South Korea’s government officials are currently drawing up a comprehensive regulatory framework, the Digital Asset Basic Act, expected to be finalized next year. The act will be formed from 13 crypto legislative proposals currently before the National Assembly.
“Considering the rapid change in the digital asset market, the Financial Supervisory Service will actively support legislation through monitoring, so that overall regulations such as digital asset disclosure can be prepared,” Lee said.
Read more: South Korea's Financial Watchdog to Expedite New Crypto Rules: Report
Jey Kim contributed reporting."
253,268,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/15/the-long-arm-of-ftx/,The Long Arm of FTX,It's hard to overstate how much FTX embedded itself into the broader world. That could drive some of the response to its collapse.,2022-11-15,"Two weeks ago, I thought the biggest story for the week of Nov. 8 would be the U.S. midterm election. Control of both the House and the Senate were up for grabs, with the future of crypto legislation at stake. All of that’s still true, but FTX collapsed in incredible and rapid fashion, with the effects reverberating throughout the world, and that’s really taken precedence in both crypto interest and national attention right now.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
FTX filed for bankruptcy last week, in what appears to be the most chaotic way possible.
The vibe has shifted. When Terra collapsed it was because it was a quirky crypto experiment that was obviously not going to succeed and thank goodness its effects were just limited to other crypto companies. Celsius and Voyager filed for bankruptcy and, wow wait, what were these companies doing with customer funds? Three Arrows fell apart – but again, hey it's a crypto hedge fund or something, the broader world isn't going to care.
FTX is something new. Partly because of how ridiculously this whole thing fell apart, partly because of just how insane some of what's been reported seems and largely because of how much FTX tried to become a part of the broader world, everyone is paying attention. That's going to lead to some interesting outcomes in the fallout.
I’m going to quickly recap what happened. For those of you who have not closed Twitter in the last 170 hours or so, feel free to jump down to the next subheading.
On Nov. 2, my colleague Ian Allison published a report revealing that much of the balance sheet for Alameda Research, a quantitative trading firm, was composed of a large amount of the FTT token, which is issued by the cryptocurrency exchange FTX. Alameda and FTX share the same founder and ownership, so this immediately raised some questions about the figures these companies were reporting and in particular, whether this meant that either company had all the funds they claimed.
Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder in question, took to Twitter to reassure investors that everything was fine. A few days later, he and Binance’s Changpeng Zhao announced Binance would acquire FTX. Then CZ pulled out. But FTX US was still fine, Bankman-Fried said.
And then on Friday, FTX Group filed for bankruptcy, including FTX US, Alameda Research and, bizarrely, a bunch of companies that weren’t actually under the FTX umbrella and were quite surprised to discover they were listed. A leaked Excel spreadsheet reported by the Financial Times suggested FTX had less than $1 billion in assets, against around $9 billion in liabilities (and was written in such a way that Bloomberg’s Matt Levine possibly went insane).
The bankruptcy filing was chaotic, to say the least. At the time of writing, we still don’t even have a full bankruptcy document. We just have the top sheet where FTX says loosely how many creditors it has (over 100,000) and checks off ranges for its assets and liabilities ($10-$50 billion for both).
*Editor’s note: FTX, Alameda and the various companies finally began filing more information late Monday night. Click here for more.
The sheer insanity of what happened was perhaps driven home late Friday night, when after everything else, the exchange was hacked (or “hacked”).
This story has naturally drawn mainstream attention from around the world. My friends have asked about it. My parents have asked about it. My parents' friends have asked about it.
And that is just one of the reasons why it's worth exploring just how deeply entrenched FTX became over the past two years or so.
It would be difficult to overstate the reach FTX had. Bankman-Fried was a major political donor over the past two years. He donated millions to the winning campaign of now-President Joe Biden in 2020. He donated to primary candidates and lawmakers from both parties this year.
Some of these lawmakers are already starting to announce they'll donate the funds tied to Bankman-Fried. CoinDesk continues to reach out to the rest.
GMI PAC, a political group backed by Bankman-Fried, saw 19 candidates it backed win.
Within the ordinary course of business, Bankman-Fried was testifying on crypto legislation before Congress and proposing novel ways of settling derivatives trades to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The chair of the CFTC expressed on multiple occasions how interesting the proposal was.
Bankman-Fried took photos with lawmakers and regulators.
There's also a conspiracy theory that FTX was a Democratic Party psyop designed to funnel crypto investors' money to the party as part of a broader push to kill crypto, or that Ukraine funneled money to the Democratic Party by way of FTX. Sometimes this theory also trades in antisemitic tropes. This is very dumb.
For one thing, Bankman-Fried didn't only donate to Democrats, though he was a major party donor. For another, he donated a lot to primary candidates who didn't win. Also, it’s probably worth noting that FTX Digital Markets Co-CEO Ryan Salame donated heavily to Republicans.
I'll trust that if you're reading this newsletter, I won't need to explain that antisemitism is bad (and also, for what it's worth, not even accurate).
Beyond that, though, FTX really did sponsor or partner with all sorts of things. There was FTX Arena, the home of the Miami HEAT basketball team. There was Major League Baseball, where every referee had an FTX patch on their jerseys. There was the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, which FTX helped funnel donations to. A Formula 1 team. The Golden State Warriors. The World Economic Forum. The University of California – Berkeley’s entire athletic department. Not one, but two different esports organizations. If you went to Boston, you saw FTX signs on the street. If you went to the Bahamas, you could attend multiple conferences with FTX branding. The company really was everywhere. That's a lot of normies who saw the name or logo somewhere, even if they didn't follow the crypto sector all that closely.
FTX worked with companies to issue Visa debit cards, Bankman-Fried had a sizeable stake in Robinhood and former world leaders and luminaries took the stage with him.
And this doesn’t even get into all the venture capital firms and others who invested in FTX.
A lot of these groups are now starting to cut ties with FTX. Unlike the Nationals’ Terra deal, it does not appear that many of these sponsorships were prepaid, meaning those groups now have to find new sponsors. And as for the rest of these companies or groups, I'd imagine they're going to be cutting ties and and the non-crypto folks are going to be asking a) how did a company with apparently no internal controls come to occupy such a large space in the world and b) what will regulators do to prevent this from happening again.
The backlash is going to be severe.
I spoke to several lawyers and D.C. insiders about the situation last week as things unfolded. One thing that’s clear: lawmakers are paying attention. There's talk of hearings, potentially before the end of this year, according to Ron Hammond at the Blockchain Association, an industry lobbyist group.
I wrote a bit about the different ways that backlash could evolve for CoinDesk on Monday.
One possible reaction is that regulators will become more proactive about how they oversee crypto, rather than reactive. This is the fourth major failure this year – Luna, Celsius, Three Arrows and now FTX. Is this going to spur actual global coordination around crypto regulation? Or even just unilateral action from entities like the Securities and Exchange Commission?
It’s not immediately clear to me what U.S. regulators could have done about FTX specifically, given it headquartered in the Bahamas.
We haven't heard anything specific on this yet, and I suspect it may take a while before we will. But the amount of attention FTX is getting makes me suspect that there will be pressure from lawmakers to act swiftly, rather than wait for the next shoe to drop.
And as Ken White, a former federal prosecutor and a partner at the Brown White & Osborn law firm, told me, this is the kind of “splashy” case that investigators would want to prosecute.
“There's tons of fraud and securities fraud out there and the Feds can't go after it all. The things they go after tend to be big in numbers or splashy or somehow sexy and high profile,” he said. “This is all those things. A huge amount of money, it's very public … it involves exciting new technology and new ideas and all that. It's exactly the type of case that the Feds would invest resources into going after.”
On the other hand, the financial shock appears to so far be contained within the crypto ecosystem. One issue several regulators had warned about pre-FTX was the possible contagion risk posed by crypto becoming a part of the broader financial system. So far, that hasn’t happened yet. That could blunt the regulatory response somewhat.
On another note, there is no way to succinctly sum up the sheer amount of coverage CoinDesk has published over the past week and change. Click here for a list of all our recent stories.
Fresh off the news that Democrats would retain control of the Senate for the next two years, U.S. President Joe Biden has nominated Acting Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chair Martin Gruenberg to a full term helming the agency. Senate Banking Committee Chair Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) praised the move. House Financial Services Ranking Member Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) called it a partisan section. And the Conference for State Bank Supervisors lamented the lack of state bank supervisors on the FDIC.
(The New York Times) Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried is still giving interviews. He spoke to the Times about recent events.
(The Washington Post) There was a tweet last week from a verified account claiming to be pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly. The tweet said that insulin would now be free. The actual Eli Lilly was surprised and unamused. It’s now canceling its Twitter ad buys.
(HSE University) Longtime readers will know I’m a nut for all things LEGO. A new study found that LEGO sets may actually be a pretty decent investment, as their value skyrockets after a few years when they cease being manufactured. Vindication!
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
254,23,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/15/celsius-terra-tax-implications/,The Tax Impact of This Year’s Platform and Protocol Failures,The Celsius Network bankruptcy and the failure of Terra have caused many questions for taxpayers caught in the middle.,2022-11-15,"Throughout 2022, the crypto economy has been in the throes of a bear market, which has taken a heavy toll on investors, platforms and protocols. While investors have watched the value of their holdings drop, there has been an uptick in failures at the platform and protocol levels, which has added fuel to the fire of investment losses and caused many questions for taxpayers caught in the middle.
Let’s examine two of the larger events to occur this year: the Celsius Network bankruptcy and the failure of Terra and its cryptocurrency LUNA, and discuss the potential tax implications of each.
Phil Gaudiano is the co-founder and CFO of Polygon Advisory Group. This article is part of Tax Week.
Celsius was a crypto lending platform that advertised very high interest rates on various cryptocurrencies that its 1.7 million users transferred to the platform. At its peak, the company held almost $12 billion worth of customer deposits under management. Then, on June 12 of this year, facing a liquidity crisis, Celsius posted a memo online informing its users that all withdrawal, swap and transfer functionality would be temporarily paused. A month later, on July 13, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
For customers of Celsius, there are many questions related to the failure of the platform. One that we often hear in our tax practice is, “Can I deduct my Celsius losses?”
The deductibility of Celsius losses hinges on the concept of bad debt, which is outlined in Section 166 of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. Since most Celsius customers are individual investors, we will look specifically at Section 166(d), which deals with nonbusiness bad debts, defined as any debt not related to the taxpayer’s trade or business. Generally, a nonbusiness bad debt is recognized as a short-term capital loss on a taxpayer’s return.
Two requirements need to be met to recognize a loss from a nonbusiness bad debt on a tax return:
There must be a bona fide debt
The debt must be completely worthless
Under Regulation Section 1-1.66-1(c), a bona fide debt is based on “a valid and enforceable obligation to pay a fixed or determinable sum of money” at some point. The determinable sum of money involved here would be the value of crypto deposited into Celsius.
For the debt to be completely worthless, it must be considered wholly uncollectible. It is important to note that under the regulations there is no mechanism for partial deductibility of nonbusiness bad debts. Instead, the entire debt must be worthless to deduct the bad debt as a capital loss.
Many taxpayers believe that Celsius’ bankruptcy filing is grounds to consider its underlying debts worthless; however, Regulation Section 1.166-2(c) holds that bankruptcy only indicates the worthlessness of “at least part of” a debt. Remember from above that the debt must be completely worthless to recognize a capital loss, so the regulations are reasonably clear here that bankruptcy proceedings don’t guarantee complete worthlessness.
So, what is a person who has crypto locked inside Celsius to do? The short answer is to wait and see. Once bankruptcy proceedings are finalized, some or all of the funds owed by Celsius to its customers may be paid back. But until we know for certain how much, if any, will be returned to customers there is no allowable tax loss. The entire tax code revolves around realization events – the consummation of transactions that have an economic effect – which trigger recognition of income, deductions, gains and losses. In this situation, there has been no realization event yet. In short, nothing has happened from a tax perspective.
The Terra ecosystem was a decentralized finance (DeFi) project that provided high yields to investors. During 2022 the yields offered on staked deposits of its native stablecoin terraUSD (UST) were nearly 20% per year.
TerraUSD is an algorithmic stablecoin that used its sister cryptocurrency, LUNA, to maintain its peg to the U.S. dollar. In May, over $2 billion worth of terraUSD was unstaked and began to be liquidated. As a result, terraUSD lost its peg to the dollar. More LUNA was minted in an effort to reclaim the peg, thereby flooding the market with LUNA tokens and diluting the value of each LUNA token in circulation. In a matter of a few days, LUNA had gone from a market price of over $120 to less than 1 cent.
Many investors saw the value of their LUNA and UST holdings fall precipitously during the crash. While it is unlikely that LUNA and terraUSD will recover their values (both are currently trading more than 95% below all-time highs), there is some relief available to investors who choose to sell their holdings and recognize a capital loss.
As mentioned previously, realization events form the backbone of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). IRC Section1222 discusses various types of capital gains and losses, all stemming from the “sale or exchange” of a capital asset. In short, in order for a capital loss to be recognized an investor must first sell the asset at a loss. Continuing to hold LUNA (now trading as LUNC) or UST precludes loss recognition because no sale has occurred. The silver lining here is that both UST and LUNC are still available to trade on many exchanges, so selling the assets at a loss is possible.
Celsius and Terra are not the only major failures we have seen. Numerous other platforms and protocols have succumbed to the bear market over the course of 2022. For taxpayers caught in the middle there is some relief available through deductible losses – as either bad debts or capital losses, depending on the situation – but not until there is some triggering event that causes realization of those losses. If you are a taxpayer with exposure to a failed crypto project, consult your tax adviser to determine the best course of action in your case."
255,86,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/11/16/luna-foundation-guard-spent-28b-defending-ust-peg-third-party-audit-finds/,"Luna Foundation Guard Spent $2.8B Defending UST Peg, Third-Party Audit Finds",Terraform Labs founder Do Kwon dismissed similarities with the collapse of FTX.,2022-11-16,"Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), the entity behind the collapsed Terra ecosystem, spent $2.8 billion of crypto trying to defend the peg of algorithmic stablecoin TerraUSD (UST) in May, according to a third-party audit by JS Held, a Jericho, N.Y.-based consultancy firm.
The audit also suggests that Terraform Labs (TFL), the developer of the Terra blockchain, spent $613 million trying to defend the peg. A stablecoin is an asset that is designed to mirror the value of another asset, commonly fiat currencies. UST was an algorithmic stablecoin, designed to maintain its peg through market forces.
The efforts of LFG and TFL ultimately failed, with the value of UST falling to zero as the $60 billion ecosystem met its demise. The collapse led to widespread contagion across the crypto industry, with numerous lenders, brokers and exchanges filing for bankruptcy protection due to exposure to the ecosystem.
“While there have been multiple recent failures in crypto, it is important to distinguish between Terra’s case, where a transparent, open-source decentralized stablecoin failed to maintain peg parity and its creators spent proprietary capital to try to defend it, and failure of centralized custodial platforms where its operators misused other people’s money (customer funds) for financial gain,"" said Do Kwon, Terraform Labs founder.
Do Kwon's location is unknown after Interpol issued a Red Notice to law enforcement agencies around the world.
CORRECTION (Nov. 16, 11:17 UTC): Corrects location of JS Held headquarters, an earlier version of the story said it is based in London."
256,173,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/17/jpmorgan-the-shrinking-stablecoin-market-is-another-sign-of-investors-exodus-from-crypto/,JPMorgan: The Shrinking Stablecoin Market Is Another Sign of Investors’ Exodus From Crypto,"It’s difficult to see a sustained recovery in crypto prices without stablecoin outflows stopping, the report said.",2022-11-17,"One way of measuring investors' exodus from the crypto ecosystem is the shrinkage of the stablecoin market, JPMorgan said in a research report Wednesday.
Stablecoins, a type of cryptocurrency whose value is pegged to another asset such as the U.S. dollar, are the equivalent of cash in the crypto world and provide a bridge between fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies, the report said. The growth of the stablecoin market can be viewed as a proxy for the amount of money that has entered the digital assets sector, the report added.
The combined market cap of the largest stablecoins reached a peak of $186 billion in May, before the Terra/LUNA collapse, the note said. That compares with less than $30 billion at the start of 2021 and about $5 billion a year before that. Since May, the stablecoin universe has dropped by $41 billion, with just under half of the decline attributed to the demise of Terra.
JPMorgan says that excluding Terra, it could be argued that the stablecoin market peaked at around $170 billion at the start of the year, was little changed till May 2022, and has been falling ever since.
The bank says that since May 2022 about $25 billion has actively exited the crypto market via stablecoin redemptions.
This outflow of $25 billion looks small relative to the $165 billion that had entered the crypto market via stablecoin creation in 2020 and 2021, “but it would be difficult here to imagine a sustained recovery in crypto prices without the shrinkage of the stablecoin universe stopping.”
Read more: Coinbase: FTX’s Collapse Will Likely Lead to an Extended Crypto Winter"
257,294,https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/11/17/they-burned-down-crypto-now-they-want-a-comeback/,They Burned Down Crypto. Now They Want a Comeback,Sam Bankman-Fried thinks he can turn things around while his peers Su Zhu and Kyle Davies paint themselves as victims.,2022-11-17,"On Wednesday, Vox published a bombshell interview with former crypto exchange FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, where the 30-year-old crypto trader all but revealed he had, in fact, co-mingled customer funds with those of his hedge fund, Alameda Research. This would be a problem on its own, as it violated FTX’s terms-of-service as well as likely falls afoul of wires or securities laws.
Bankman-Fried’s crime, which “wasn’t quite lending [customer deposits] out” but something “messier,” “more organic” and “reasonable” than that, was compounded after a run on his exchange left up to one million FTX users without access to their funds. Billions of dollars worth of crypto are missing –  and the “messy accounting” at FTX and Alameda are still being sorted.
This article is excerpted from The Node, CoinDesk's daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news. You can subscribe to get the full newsletter here.
He’s now attempting to raise $8 billion in financing to make customers whole. What that will look like is anybody’s guess, (Bankman-Fried did not respond to a request for comment). But the sum is far greater than the company, once valued at $32 billion and now going through Chapter 11 bankruptcy, ever raised. SBF has also resigned as CEO.
That Bankman-Fried thinks he can mount a reversal of fortune shows a deep disconnect with reality. He’s lied repeatedly in public, to customers and to investors – his trust is burned, and he’s likely facing criminal charges. And while he thinks he was once “one of the world’s greatest fundraisers,” his success was built on a charm offensive and misdirection.
See also: How Sam Bankman-Fried's 'Effective' Altruism Blew Up FTX | Opinion
FTX counted a number of white glove funds as investors, including Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Ventures and Coinbase’s angle fund. Apparently no one did any due diligence – Sequoia even committed after finding out SBF was playing League of Legends during the meeting. That level of lax scrutiny won’t happen again.
Of course there are exceptions, Kevin O’Leary, the celebrity investor and paid FTX spokesperson, said he’d be willing to bet again on SBF. And that’s the scary thing: while Bankman-Fried is likely finished, he has peers that are attempting to do the same thing – recoup their reputations, possibly raise money and restart their “hero’s arc” – and just might.
Namely, Terra creator Do Kwon and Three Arrows Capital co-founders Su Zhu and Kylie Davies have recently been doing the media circuit, being tapped as experts to comment on Bankman-Fried’s rise and fall. Zhu and Davies, who nuked billions of dollars, are even reportedly on the market to raise a new crypto-investment fund.
All three are on the run from the law, have been accused of not cooperating with authorities and have ended up in non-extradition countries. The three have seemingly come up with a story that Bankman-Fried had popped the unsustainable LUNA bubble that eventually implicated Three Arrows.
But already there are indications that this attempt to make themselves the victim are thin. Zhu wrongfully called out former FTX employee turned whistleblower Zane Tackett for conspiring against 3AC, getting key details wrong. He also furthered conspiracies that the Democratic Party is conspiring with Bankman-Fried (who was a mega-donor) to evade justice.
See also: 'Down Infinite': A Ham-Fisted Attempt to Rehabilitate Do Kwon | Opinion
The disgraced Terra co-founder made a surprise appearance on the popular podcast Up Only last week, where Do joked how he was the wrong person to take “crisis management” advice from.
Do had appeared next to convicted felon Martin Shkreli, who noted Bankman-Fried and Do will likely go to jail, though not to worry much as it isn’t that bad. Shkreli, aka Pharma Bro, a name he earned after jacking up the price of a life-saving medicine, might be the template for reinvention, having emerged from prison a full-flung “crypto bro.”
It’d be one thing if Do, Davies, Zhu or Bankman-Fried had also served their time after being convicted. And, to be sure, they all deserve a fair trial. But until then, they really ought to disappear."
258,290,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/21/coinbase-microstrategy-bonds-tank-as-ftx-collapse-dents-institutional-confidence-in-crypto/,"Coinbase, MicroStrategy Bonds Tank as FTX Collapse Dents Institutional Confidence in Crypto","High bond yields are reflective of sharply higher interest rates as well as genuine skepticism about the long-term viability of crypto amongst institutional investors, one investor said.",2022-11-21,"Bonds issued by cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase (COIN) and by MicroStrategy (MSTR), a business-intelligence company and investor in bitcoin, have slumped as investor confidence in the industry slid in the wake of FTX's collapse.
Coinbase's bond due 2031 has dropped 15% this month to 50 U.S. cents on the dollar, according to data source Finra-Morningstar, sending the yield – which moves in the opposite direction to price – to a record high 13.5%. The decline comes after nearly three months of consolidation and marks an extension of the bearish trend seen early this year. The yield on the company's bond due in 2026 jumped to 17%.
Bonds tied to MicroStrategy have taken a similar beating. On Friday, the yield on the company's 2028 notes, issued last year to finance bitcoin (BTC) accumulation, climbed to 13.35% as the price dropped to a record 72.5 cents on the dollar. MicroStrategy holds about 130,000 BTC worth approximately $2.08 billion on its balance sheet.
The companies' bonds carry a premium of around 1,000 basis points – or 10 percentage points – to the U.S. 10-year Treasury note yield, as of Friday. In traditional markets, a premium of that level is taken to represent credit stress. The 10-year Treasury was yielding 3.80% at press time.
""High bond yields are reflective of sharply higher rates but also of genuine skepticism about the long-term viability of crypto amongst institutional investors after the high profile collapses of Terra/LUNA, Celsius [Network], 3AC [Three Arrows Capital], Voyager [Digital], BlockFi and FTX,"" Mike Alfred, a value investor and founder of digital assets investment platform Eaglebrook Advisors, said.
Rich Rosenblum, co-founder of crypto trading firm and liquidity provider GSR, said the uptick in bond yields represents heightened credit risk.
""Especially for Coinbase, there is an argument that it benefits from FTX’s demise, solidifying their position in the U.S. So the narrative is improving on a micro level, whereas the crypto credit environment has deteriorated,"" Rosenblum told CoinDesk.
The Sam Bankman-Fried-founded digital assets exchange FTX filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 11, triggering concern of a market-wide contagion. Prominent venture capital firm Multicoin, one of the many exposed to FTX, told investors its net performance had dropped 55% this month and said FTX's collapse would wipe out many firms in the coming weeks, according to CNBC.
""Those bond yields were actually the first sign of weakness in the space. It was the canary in the coal mine, a sign of stress in the crypto space even before all the blowups this year,"" Darius Sit, founder and chief investment officer at crypto options trading firm QCP Capital, said. Sit said his firm would monitor the yields as a ""possible leading sign of recovery.""
While Coinbase may be insulated from direct fallout of the FTX collapse, its vulnerability to other adverse effects, such as reduced trading levels, may make investing in Coinbase bonds or stocks unappealing. That's certainly what many in the investor community seem to be thinking.
Last week, Goldman Sachs maintained a sell rating on Coinbase shares and slashed its 12-month price target to $41 from $49, saying that once FTX-induced volatility subsides, the lower level of crypto prices and the potential for reduced investor confidence will weigh on trading volumes. Shares in Coinbase have dropped 31% this month, ending Friday at $45.26.
""If you have capital at Coinbase – do your counterparty risk assessment now,"" Lawrence McDonald, the author of the popular Bear Traps report, tweeted on Sunday after noting the spike in bond yields and the share-price decline.
Some investors believe bonds tied to Coinbase and MicroStrategy are a safer way to bet on a crypto bull revival. While that's true, bonds are likely to underperform spot bitcoin.
""Bonds are a safer route since usually there is some recovery, even in the event of bankruptcy. But the upside is also far more muted,"" GSR's Rosenblum noted.
UPDATE (Nov. 21, 9:54 UTC): Adds FTX collapse, investor comments, Goldman Sachs report on Coinbase below chart.
UPDATE (Nov. 21, 12:14 UTC): Adds comments from GSR's Rich Rosenblum in the seventh paragraph and at the end."
259,24,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/11/22/crypto-market-analysis-crypto-investors-see-few-encouraging-signs/,Crypto Market Analysis: Investors See Few Encouraging Signs,"Relative Rotation Graphs, a visual tool to capture trends in assets, do not show many signs of hope, even for cryptocurrencies that rose significantly over the last three months.",2022-11-22,"Any dataset of the most recent quarterly returns for crypto assets would undoubtedly reveal a sea of red, the latest chapter in a year of epic declines.
Even among the few cryptocurrencies that gained ground, the news is grim. Their price increases seem more like isolated circumstances rather than the initial hints of a trend upward, as one popular investment tool, Relative Rotation Graphs, indicates. RRGs offer visual representations of asset trends and can help investors foresee shifts in pricing – positive and negative.
Looking at the top 50 assets by market capitalization (Messari) shows the following with positive returns over the most recent 90 days. (The list excludes stablecoins and LUNC.)
Dogecoin (DOGE): 13.84%
Polygon (MATIC): 3.93%
Litecoin (LTC): 24.03%
The Open Network (TONCOIN): 20.96%
Quant Network (QNT): 0.80%
OKB (OKB): 16.07%
Trust Wallet Token (TWT): 112.83%
Ripple (XRP): 7.39%
XRP, DOGE, and LTC all act primarily as currencies, but otherwise each coin on the above list fits within a distinct category, so their gains cannot be attributed to particular events or industry-specific trends.
TWT is the biggest outlier with a 90-day return of nearly 113%. A closer look shows that much of TWT’s gains occurred over the most recent 11 days. Prices increased from an open of $1.04 on Nov. 10 to as high as $2.74 on Nov. 14. Prices have since retreated to $2.23, and volume has waned substantially as well.
TWT’s 24-hour volume ranks just 29th among assets at $42 million in real volume daily. By comparison, BTC’s daily volume is $3.7 billion. The low volume by comparison is noteworthy, as lower activity can lead to wider price swings.
Developed by Julius de Kempanaer, RRGs allow users to view asset performance in four distinct quadrants.
Leading: High relative performance and momentum
Weakening: Strong relative performance and slowing momentum
Lagging: Weak relative performance and momentum
Improving: Weak relative performance but increasing momentum
In orderly markets, assets tend to move through each quadrant sequentially.
A strategy often employed in using RRGs is to identify assets moving into the improving quadrant, with the expectation that in short order it will begin leading the benchmark.
If using RRGs in isolation, there doesn’t appear to be much opportunity in the above set because six of the eight assets are either lagging the SPX or weakening versus the SPX. OKB and TWT are currently leading, but TWT’s status is driven by extremely recent price activity.
But what happens when we apply a Relative Rotation Graph to the assets with the highest market capitalizations? Unfortunately for bullish investors, there isn’t a lot to see at the moment. Using the SPX as a benchmark shows that BTC, ETH, BNB, XRP and ADA are showing both weak performance and momentum relative to the benchmark.
Weak relative performance is to be expected given recent events. In coming weeks, investors will likely be searching for strengthening momentum, increasing their allocations again. For context, we last saw BTC within the improving quadrant on Sept. 27, moving into the leading quadrant though Oct. 13. For ETH, we last saw it move from improving to leading between Oct. 25 and Nov. 9.
But a repeat seems unlikely at the moment. The market looks depressed for the foreseeable future."
260,293,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/29/blockfi-joins-the-bankruptcy-parade/,BlockFi Joins the Bankruptcy Parade,The crypto lender’s financial woes are well known. Now we have a better sense of the severity.,2022-11-29,"Crypto lender BlockFi became the latest industry heavyweight to file for bankruptcy, joining Celsius Network, Voyager Digital and FTX. FTX’s collapse directly contributed to BlockFi’s filing, but the lender presented an optimistic view nevertheless in its first day pleadings.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
BlockFi announced it was filing for bankruptcy protection on Monday morning, announcing it has around $257 million in cash on hand but claiming between $1 billion and $10 billion in assets (as well as between $1 billion and $10 billion in liabilities).
BlockFi is only the latest major crypto lender to file for bankruptcy protection this year, joining Celsius Network and Voyager Digital. BlockFi followed a well-worn path – it suspended withdrawals earlier this month and (we know now) hired a consultant to sort through its processes.
Like (so far) every other crypto company, BlockFi has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, indicating it believes it can continue onwards after a restructuring process. Like other companies, BlockFi claims it faced “a severe liquidity crunch,” directly citing the collapse of the FTX crypto exchange as a main cause. Despite this, BlockFi is in a better position than FTX due, at least in part, to governance and risk management processes, the filing claims.
“The Debtors’ planning has left them well positioned to move forward despite the fact that 2022 has been a uniquely terrible year for the cryptocurrency industry, given the collapse of the UST/LUNA stablecoin ecosystem and the bankruptcies of Singapore-based cryptocurrency hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and several major cryptocurrency brokerages and exchanges such as Celsius Network Ltd. and Voyager Digital – all before the FTX debacle unfolded over a period of several days earlier this month,” the first-day filing said.
The filing also went through BlockFi’s history, its fundraises, what kind of shares it issued and how the market collapse of 2022 affected the lender.
Three Arrows Capital, which collapsed into ignominy earlier this year (despite its founders’ attempts at a comeback) “was one of BlockFi’s largest borrower clients,” Monday’s filing said. The Terra collapse likewise hurt the company.
BlockFi does hope to continue operating, although it reportedly plans to lay off staff.
Also, the company is suing Sam Bankman-Fried to secure control over Robinhood shares the former FTX CEO apparently pledged as collateral to the lender on Nov. 9.
There’s a number of events we’re watching this week tied to the general meltdown of the last month:
Tuesday, Nov. 29, at 16:30 UTC (11:30 a.m. ET): The New Jersey Bankruptcy Court will hold its first-day hearing for BlockFi.
Wednesday, Nov. 30, at 9:00 UTC (4:00 a.m. ET): The European Parliament’s Econ Committee will host a hearing on the FTX collapse.
Wednesday, Nov. 30, at 14:30 UTC (9:30 a.m. ET): The New York Times Dealbook is hosting its regular summit. Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried is still scheduled to speak, likely virtually.
Thursday, Dec. 1, at 15:00 UTC (10:00 a.m. ET): The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee is hosting a hearing on FTX’s collapse. As of the time of writing, the only confirmed speaker is Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chair Rostin Behnam. Attorneys for new FTX CEO John Ray III implied he may also have been asked to speak.
Key: (nom.) = nominee, (rum.) = rumored, (act.) = acting, (inc.) = incumbent (no replacement anticipated)
N/A
(The Washington Post) Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), who chairs the Senate Finance Committee, is asking Binance, Coinbase, Kraken, KuCoin, Bitfinex and Gemini to detail their balance sheets and how they handle customer deposits.
(The Wall Street Journal) The Financial Stability Oversight Council may approve regulators to more strictly regulate crypto companies (among other non-bank entities) next year, the Journal reports.
(The Wall Street Journal) The Boring Company, an Elon Musk venture, has yet to dig any of the tunnels it agreed to do. The company does appear to have succeeded in one area: Some local authorities canceled or pushed off on plans to build rail networks.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"
261,111,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/02/arrest-warrant-for-terra-co-founder-dismissed-by-korean-court-report/,S. Korean Judge Dismisses Arrest Warrant for Terra Co-Founder Shin,"An arrest warrant for Do Kwon, another co-founder, remains in effect, however.",2022-12-02,"The arrest warrant for Daniel Shin, who founded stablecoin issuer Terraform Labs with Do Kwon, was dismissed by a South Korean court on Saturday local time, according to Yonhap News.
""Considering the attitude toward the investigation, the circumstances, process and contents of the statement, it is difficult to see that there is a risk of destroying evidence or escaping beyond the scope of exercising the right to legitimate defense,"" Hong Jin-pyo, chief judge in charge of warrants at the Seoul Southern District Court, said, according to Yonhap.
A Terraform Labs spokesperson told CoinDesk that the decision ""once again illustrates the unfounded nature of the prosecutors' claims.""
An arrest warrant has also been issued for Do Kwon, but his location is unknown. Key personnel and former employees from Terraform Labs have been banned from leaving the country.
Arrest warrants for three early investors and four developers of Terra Luna, which were also requested together, were all dismissed for the same reason on Saturday, according to Yonhap.
UPDATE (Dec. 2, 17:57 UTC): Updated with details and background throughout.
UPDATE (Dec. 5, 09:39 UTC): Adds comment from Terraform Labs in third para."
262,291,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/08/2022-crypto-markets-a-year-in-review/,2022 – Crypto Markets: A Year in Review,"Coming off euphoric highs of the year before, the crypto market has endured an environment of tightening monetary policy, which led to sell-offs, implosions of projects like Terra, bankruptcy filings of CeFi companies including Celsius Network and Voyager Digital and the climactic downfall of the FTX exchange.",2022-12-08,"It’s no secret that 2022 has been a difficult year for global markets.
The U.S. stock market has fallen over 15% in value, bond markets have fallen over 20% and crypto markets have fallen over 50% from their peak in 2021.
Early in 2022, central banks around the world began to raise interest rates in order to slow inflation and decrease the rate of economic expansion. The tightening of monetary and fiscal policies has dramatically decreased investors’ appetite for risk and speculative investment strategies. Many investors have opted to sell or exit speculative asset classes altogether. This macroeconomic pressure has affected traditional asset classes and has put tremendous pressure on emerging asset classes including cryptocurrency.
The economic situation leading into 2022 allowed crypto to shine. Record low interest rates, an expanding money supply and a strong economy all set the stage for record growth, both in price and adoption, in the crypto economy.
You're reading Crypto for Advisors, a weekly look at digital assets and the future of finance for financial advisors. Subscribe here to receive the mailing every Thursday.
Investor interest in crypto was evident as bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) both reached all-time highs, decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols grew to record size, the crypto market cap topped $3 trillion, the non-fungible token (NFT) market grew exponentially and venture capital firms invested in many crypto businesses.
Centralized finance (CeFi) exchanges saw incredible growth as their services offered attractive yields to investors who were not able to find appealing yields in the traditional financial markets. New crypto projects garnered incredible attention and growth, including the Terra ecosystem, headlined by the algorithmic stable coin UST and sister cryptocurrency LUNA.
Investor appetite for risk and speculative asset investments was driven by economic policy that many people believed would continue for years to come. Traders, institutional investors and speculators entered leveraged positions, borrowing money at low rates, which added to the frenzy witnessed in the crypto markets.
Watch: DeFi vs CeFi: The Search for Yield
As central banks reversed course, began to decrease market liquidity and raise interest rates, these speculative asset classes started to slow. Because of the increase in interest rates, investors saw opportunities to hold lower-risk investments and earn an attractive yield. As the prices of risk assets began to decrease, the crypto market began to sell off. By the end of the second quarter of 2022, the crypto market cap had fallen over $1 trillion. This severe sell-off was accelerated as leveraged positions began to unwind.
New and exciting projects like Terra, began to implode as traders exited the crypto markets. The UST stablecoin de-pegged from the U.S. dollar. Investors lost billions of dollars in the UST blow-up, and the overall market went under even more pressure.
CeFi intuitions were overleveraged, having lent significant funds to hedge funds such as Three Arrows Capital, which lost a tremendous amount of capital in the sell-off that followed the Terra failure. Three Arrows Capital, along with many other leveraged hedge funds, defaulted on loans owed to many CeFi companies and these CeFi companies were forced to file for bankruptcy protection. User funds held on CeFi platforms were frozen and retail investors were not able to remove their funds. Companies such as Celsius Network and Voyager Digital, which promised attractive yields to users, failed and users lost their funds.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA
By the end of the summer, crypto markets were showing signs of stabilizing. The leverage in the ecosystem had apparently been purged from the markets and investor confidence began to return to crypto. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) rose to a summer high level of $1,092 on Sept. 12. Confidence was returning to the markets, driven by FTX, a large exchange and custodian, which had stepped in to rescue large CeFi lender BlockFi from bankruptcy. The seemingly strong FTX, led by founder Sam Bankman-Fried, continued to invest in crypto companies, bailed out many distressed startups and was seen as the strongest company in crypto.
Confidence in crypto markets continued into the late fall of 2022, until shocking revelations around FTX and sister company Alameda Research came to light in a November CoinDesk article. Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao immediately and publicly expressed concerns around FTX's solvency and ability to sustain its self-issued token, FTT. Traders began to withdraw funds from FTX. The FTT price fell from roughly $26 to $1 in just a few days and FTX paused customer withdrawals.
The previously healthy company was discovered to be insolvent, having commingled customer deposits and funds. FTX filed for bankruptcy protection in late November. The previous bailout of BlockFi was reversed and BlockFi was back into bankruptcy court. Crypto markets crashed. The CoinDesk Market Index plummeted to a low of $795 as investors continued their exodus from crypto markets.
Read more: The Epic Collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX Exchange: A Crypto Markets Timeline
It is important to note that none of the failures we’ve seen this year have been caused by a failure of the underlying blockchain technology. In fact, technical development has continued in the space, and this year has been a monumental time in the history of many blockchains. Ethereum underwent a successful upgrade in 2022, transitioning from a proof-of-work blockchain to a proof-of-stake blockchain. The tokenomics of Ethereum have also changed significantly, which many people believe will benefit the future of the Ethereum ecosystem.
The failures and bankruptcies seen in 2022 have led many people to call for further regulation in crypto. Fraud, theft, along with irresponsible lending and leveraged trading have created a difficult environment for investors, which many believe would not have been possible with proper government oversight and regulation.
As we move into 2023, investors should be aware that the current macro environment, lack of regulation and confidence in crypto, and unclear regulatory frameworks will continue to put pressure on crypto. While these issues are significant and will not be easy to overcome, blockchain innovation and progress is continuing to grow and the use cases for the technology are continuing to be adopted. It is important for all investors to review their crypto portfolios, their investment thesis behind crypto allocations, and set a plan for proper crypto investment moving forward."
263,161,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/08/us-watchdog-says-banks-shying-away-from-stumbling-crypto-industry/,US Watchdog Says Banks Shying Away From Stumbling Crypto Industry,"The OCC chief says lenders seem to be backing away from the industry’s recent dramas, and a new report from his regulatory agency criticizes the sector for ""weak,"" risky practices.",2022-12-08,"U.S. banks have been cooling in their crypto interest since this year’s twin failing of Terra (and its currency, LUNA) and FTX, said Michael Hsu, the acting chief of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).
“Overall, I can say – and this is going to be obvious – is that there was more interest before Terra/LUNA and FTX than since Terra/LUNA and FTX,” said Hsu, whose banking agency released its ""Semiannual Risk Perspective"" report Thursday, in which cryptocurrency risks were given heightened prominence.
The report included a new section on digital assets as a “special topic in emerging risk,” and it pummeled the industry, saying its risk management practices “lack maturity.”
“Most crypto market participants appear unprepared for the stresses and surprises that have taken place this year, resulting in substantial losses for millions of consumers,” noted the report, which is issued twice a year to flag risks to banking in the U.S.
According to OCC guidance, national banks overseen by the agency – representing the vast bulk of significant U.S. lenders – aren’t allowed to dive into new crypto business without getting an OK from the agency that they’re doing it in a safe way. So far, most crypto activity at banks has centered on holding digital assets for customers, though some Wall Street firms have experimented with stablecoins and other uses for blockchain technology.
This year’s events – culminating recently with the implosion of one of the global crypto giants, FTX – “have revealed that the crypto industry risk management practices are weak, that stablecoins may not be stable, and that contagion risk within the crypto industry is high,” said Hsu, who has been steadily critical of the sector. Combining all of that, he said, “explains some of the banks’ postures towards crypto.”
U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Tina Smith (DFL-Minn.) sent letters to banking regulators this week, asking Hsu, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell and Acting Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chair Martin Gruenberg for answers about banks’ involvement in crypto.
“While the banking system has so far been relatively unscathed by the latest crypto crash, FTX’s collapse shows that crypto may be more integrated into the banking system than regulators are aware,” the lawmakers argued in the letters.
In particular, the lawmakers asked Hsu how Alameda Research, a company founded by FTX creator Sam Bankman-Fried, could have invested in Moonstone Bank, a financial institution based in Washington state."
264,157,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/12/terras-do-kwon-is-in-serbia-report/,"Terra's Do Kwon Is in Serbia, CoinDesk Korea Reports","The Terraform Labs co-founder is wanted in South Korea, backed by Interpol.",2022-12-12,"Do Kwon, who is wanted internationally in connection with the collapse of the Terra ecosystem, has moved to Serbia through Dubai, CoinDesk Korea reported on Monday.
Kwon was the co-founder and CEO of Terraform Labs, which was behind the stablecoin terraUSD (UST) that was deppeged from the U.S. dollar in May. The depegging quickly sent luna (LUNA), the token that was used to stabilize UST, on a downward spiral. The Terra domino was the first to fall in a crypto winter that most recently saw the collapse of crypto exchange FTX.
South Korea, where Kwon is from, had issued an arrest warrant for the founder. Interpol had also reportedly issued a red notice for the co-founder, which is a request to law enforcement around the world to locate and provisionally arrest a person pending extradition, surrender or similar legal action.
The Seoul Southern District Prosecutor's office said Monday that Kwon was in Serbia, and the local Ministry of Justice was in the process of asking Serbian authorities for their cooperation in the investigation, CoinDesk Korea reported.
Kwon left South Korea in April for Singapore, and went to Dubai in October, from where he went to Serbia, CoinDesk Korea reported. Authorities are concerned that he might have already moved to another country; his passport has been invalidated so authorities cannot check official records, according to the report.
Bloomberg had earlier reported that Kwon was in Europe.
Prosecutors asked for an arrest warrant for Terra's other co-founder, Daniel Shin, but courts denied the request as they don't believe he will flee or try to destroy evidence.
Read more: The Fall of Terra: A Timeline of the Meteoric Rise and Crash of UST and LUNA"
265,296,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/12/first-mover-asia-qcp-capital-founder-sees-crypto-industrys-immediate-future-tied-to-genesis-debacle-expects-rebound-in-2024/,"First Mover Asia: QCP Capital Founder Sees Crypto Industry’s Immediate Future Tied to Genesis Debacle, Expects Rebound in 2024","During a panel discussion at Taipei Blockchain Week, Darius Sit noted continued institutional adoption of the crypto options and derivatives market, among industry high points; bitcoin rises; Bahamas announces the arrest of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried",2022-12-12,"Good morning. Here’s what’s happening:
Prices: Bitcoin returned to its perch comfortably above $17,000 after dipping earlier in the day amid a news report that Binance was the subject of a U.S. federal probe.
Insights: QCP Capital founder Darius Sit told a Tapei Blockchain Week audience that he does not see a recovery before 2024.
Bitcoin Continues Its Side Ways
By James Rubin
A day before they will have a clearer view of the inflation landscape, investors had to reckon with the crypto industry's latest storm clouds: a report that Binance is the subject of a U.S. Justice Department probe, and later Monday, the arrest of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried.
Bitcoin tumbled below $16,900 at one point before recovering to recently trade at about $17,235, up slightly over the past 24 hours. BTC has spent much of the past two weeks clinging to support above $17,000 and seems likely to continue its tenacious ways for at least another day when the Bureau of Labor Statistics announces November's Consumer Price Index (CPI) report.
Inflation has shown signs of continuing its downward trend of recent months. On Wednesday, the U.S. Federal Reserve will likely drop its latest interest rate increase to 50 basis points (bps) from its current streak of 75 bps hikes, although markets are likely to remain nervously watchful for the time being.
""It's a strong risk-off environment, not just in crypto but across every industry and in every country around the world,"" Hany Rashwan, CEO of 21.co, the parent company of crypto exchange-trading fund firm 21 Shares, told CoinDesk TV's ""First Mover"" program. ""The easiest way of thinking about this is [in] the last 10 years money has been cheaper to acquire, to borrow. As interest rates go up, the value of money becomes higher, so it becomes harder to get, and as a result people spend more carefully.""
Yet, Rashwan added that his firm has ""been comforted internally by the plateauing of the bitcoin price within a specific band.""
Ether followed a similar pattern to bitcoin, falling earlier in the day before rebounding. The second-largest crypto by market value was recently changing hands at about $1,275, a small gain from Sunday, same time. Most other major cryptos were in the green, with MATIC, the token of layer 2 platform Polygon, and SUSHI, the token of the Sushiswap decentralized exchange, recently rising about 2% and 1%, respectively.
The CoinDesk Market Index (CDI), an index measuring cryptos' performance, was recently up 0.23%.
U.S. equity indexes closed in an upbeat mood about inflation and the Federal Reserve's expected dovish turn. The tech-heavy Nasdaq and S&P 500 rose 1.3% and 1.4%, respectively.
Meanwhile, according to Reuters, the Justice Department has discussed possible plea deals with Binance's lawyers. Prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Seattle began investigating Binance in 2018 after a spate of cases that saw criminals use Binance to transfer illicit funds, according to Reuters. Other prosecutors believe that more evidence needs to be gathered before a criminal case can be filed, causing a split within the Department of Justice.
Late Monday, the Bahamian Attorney General's office announced the arrest of Bankman-Fried. ""SBF's arrest followed receipt of formal notification from the United States that it has filed criminal charges against SBF and is likely to request his extradition,"" the office wrote in a release. ""As a result of the notification received and the material provided therewith, it was deemed appropriate for the Attorney General to seek SBF's arrest and hold him in custody pursuant to our nation's Extradition Act.""
Genesis Shakeout Will Determine When Crypto Can Rebound
By Sam Reynolds
Everything that could go wrong in crypto has gone wrong in crypto, QCP Capital’s founder and chief investment officer said during a panel at Taipei Blockchain Week. But there are still uses for the asset class, and ""green shoots"" are emerging.
“We are in a credit crisis triggered by LUNA and UST,” QCP’s Darius Sit said on stage, referring to the Terra token and algorithmic stablecoin. “This means there are cascading effects on everyone that had credit risks, and there are still some landmines in the space.”
Sit said that he sees a great reset and washout caused by the credit crisis, which won't end until investors see whether Digital Currency Group (DCG) and its Genesis Global Trading unit are going to collapse or stay together. (DCG is also the parent company of CoinDesk).
“If this comes apart, there’s another round of defaults,” he said.
Sit pegs a recovery happening around 2024, but macroeconomics will also play a role in this. He noted that the most successful appreciation of digital asset prices came during the COVID-19 pandemic when the U.S. Fed was enlarging its balance sheet. But now the opposite is happening.
As far as the use cases and green shoots go, Sit points to the strength of the stablecoin industry, which Sit says has record revenue. There’s also the continued institutional adoption of the crypto options and derivatives market, where QCP is the most active.
“The trading teams are all former [foreign exchange] people,” Sit said.
If there’s one thing that not even a “dot-com bubble and 2008” can change, it's that everyone is now talking about crypto, Sit said. Meaning, from the cab driver to the banker to the former FX people now trading crypto options and derivatives. Things like NFTs and Web3 gaming will survive this market cycle – but just at a lower valuation.
3:00 p.m. HKT/SGT(7:00 UTC) European Union Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (YoY/Nov)
9:30 p.m. HKT/SGT(13:30 UTC) United States Consumer Price Index ex Food & Energy (YoY/Nov)
7:50 a.m. HKT/SGT(23:50 UTC) Bank of Japan Tankan Non-Manufacturing Outlook (Q4)
In case you missed it, here is the most recent episode of ""First Mover"" on CoinDesk TV:
US Prosecutors Reportedly Split on Charging Binance Over Possible Money Laundering; Bitcoin Trades Sideways
Tuesday, lawmakers will hear from Sam Bankman-Fried after his crypto exchange, FTX, filed for bankruptcy protection. The former CEO is scheduled to testify before the House Financial Services Committee in the first of two hearings this week on the FTX collapse. CoinDesk's Nikhilesh De had a preview of the hearings and an update on the U.S. Justice Department's reported investigation of FTX rival Binance. Also, 21.co co-founder and CEO Hany Rashwan shared his crypto markets outlook. Plus, Paul Brody of Ernst & Young kicked off ""Crypto 2023: What's Next For Crypto?""
Coinbase Says Law Enforcement Requests Rose 66% From Year Ago: The number of requests from the U.S., which accounted for about 43% of the total, increased by 6%.
Ark Invest Adds Coinbase Stock as Crypto Exchange's Price Slides: The purchase takes the ARK Innovation ETF's holding to 5.7 million COIN shares and marks its first investment in the crypto exchange in a month.
US Prosecutors Look to Charge Binance, Executives on Possible Money Laundering Violations, Reuters Reports: The Department of Justice has also discussed a possible plea deal with Binance's lawyers, the report added.
Bitcoin Group Agrees to Buy German Bank Bankhaus von der Heydt for More Than $15M: The transaction is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2023.
Bermuda Digital Bank Jewel Issues ‘Fully-Backed’ Stablecoin: The Jewel USD stablecoin will be launching on Polygon."
266,210,https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/12/14/citi-says-crypto-market-leverage-open-interest-are-historically-low/,"Citi Says Crypto Market Leverage, Open Interest Are Historically Low",The bank expects a broader focus on decentralization in 2023 following this year’s failings in centralized crypto ventures.,2022-12-14,"The past year in the digital asset market has been characterized by a series of negative shocks, triggered initially by the collapse of Terra/LUNA, Citi (C) said in a research report Monday looking back on the year.
“Leverage, volatility and interest have faded as investors battle with declining prices,” analysts led by Joseph Ayoub wrote. “Retail interest has broadly diminished as prices have declined,” and this has “coincided with a more general decline in volatility.”
Institutional interest has also declined. This “loss of trust” followed the failure of many centralized entities, and is reflected in exchange-traded product (ETP) flows, which have remained negative throughout the year, the report said.
Against a broader macro backdrop of inflation concerns, rising interest rates and tightening financial conditions, total crypto market cap has declined by about 61% compared to an 18% drop for the S&P 500 index, the report added.
The bank says the bankruptcies of crypto exchange FTX and lenders Celsius Network and Voyager Digital were failures of centralized entities rather than decentralized entities, “perhaps signifying the resilience of decentralized finance protocols.” Decentralized finance (DeFi) is an umbrella term for a variety of financial applications carried out on a blockchain.
Bitcoin open interest saw a significant decline, the note said. It started the year at more than $23 billion and has dropped to around $9 billion. Leverage has also largely declined. Open interest is the total number of outstanding derivative contracts held by investors and represents active positions.
The bank notes there is still over $150 billion in market cap across stablecoins. This type of cryptocurrency saw only 5% net redemptions in 2022. However, relative declines show different investor behavior and diverging confidence in stablecoins, with tether (USDT) losing as much as $10 billion in market cap, while USD coin (USDC) stayed roughly level and Binance USD (BUSD) increased.
Spot trading volumes have remained resilient despite falling crypto prices, and decentralized exchange (DEX) volumes have grown in recent weeks following the collapse of FTX. The demise of FTX has “further bolstered policymaker calls for crypto regulation, placing a greater emphasis on consumer protection,” according to the note.
Read more: Goldman Sachs Sees Gold Outperforming Bitcoin in the Longer Term"
267,22,https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2022/12/29/solana-tokens-continue-steep-slide-while-major-cryptos-stay-flat/,Solana Tokens Continue Steep Slide While Major Cryptos Stay Flat,"SOL has dropped nearly 8% in the past 24 hours, adding to a 20% slide over the past week.",2022-12-29,"Crypto markets slid a nominal 0.8% in the past 24 hours as broader equity markets grappled with renewed coronavirus fears stemming from China.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index and Japan’s Nikkei 225 had shed 1% as of Asian afternoon hours on Thursday, while the Shanghai Composite fell 0.44%. Stocks fell amid weakened risk appetite on one of the final trading days of the year, according to Bloomberg.
The bearish sentiment, however, didn't seem to affect major cryptocurrencies, with bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH) and several other major tokens such as polkadot (DOT), binance coin (BNB) and XRP (XRP) seeing nominal change.
Solana (SOL), however, dropped as much as 10% in the past 24 hours, adding to a 20% slide over the past week. Selling pressure on the tokens came because of their close links to disgraced FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried, who faces charges of fraud and misappropriation of client funds.
Thursday's decline put SOL on track for nine straight days of losses, the longest run of declines since Sept. 17, 2021, based on Messari data.
Since 2020, Bankman-Fried has been a major proponent of the Solana network, launching the decentralized exchange Serum on the then-upstart network and investing heavily in the platform's projects.
Apart from prices, the value locked on Solana-based applications has declined 98% since November last year, DefiLlama data shows. Steep falls in Solana’s metrics came after the implosion of Terra network in May and a market-wide drop in July and after Bankman-Fried's FTX problems first came to light early last month.
Alternative currencies outside of the top 20 tokens by market capitalization saw slight changes as well, except for toncoin (TON), which fell 5% over the past 24 hours, and luna classic (LUNC), which dropped 7%.
Meanwhile, premarket futures for the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 and S&P 500 both inched 0.5% higher, pointing to possible gains when the U.S. markets open on Thursday.
UPDATE (Dec. 29, 10:03 UTC): Adds SOL's streak of declines in fourth paragraph."
268,284,https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/30/ftx-congress-stablecoins-what-2023-may-bring-for-crypto-regulations/,"FTX, Congress, Stablecoins: What 2023 May Bring for Crypto Regulations",CoinDesk’s policy team predicts the issues and topics that may take center stage over the next 12 months.,2022-12-30,"Can you believe this year started off with U.S. law enforcement officials arresting two individuals in connection with the 2016 Bitfinex hacked funds? For this week’s newsletter, the 102nd since we first launched in 2021, I asked CoinDesk’s Policy Team what they’re looking out for this upcoming year.
You’re reading State of Crypto, a CoinDesk newsletter looking at the intersection of cryptocurrency and government. Click here to sign up for future editions.
CoinDesk’s regulation team lays out what we’re looking at this upcoming year.
Crypto’s growing stature in the world will draw increasing amounts of attention from regulators.
Nikhilesh De (U.S.): This year did not play out quite as expected. While the idea that the bull market would end and a new crypto winter would hit was understood and expected, the sheer scale of this year’s failures seemed to catch a lot of people by surprise.
Next year will not, I suspect, be pretty. Cheyenne Ligon gets into this as well a bit further down, but as the current bankruptcy cases advance and possible new bankruptcies arise, the industry will have to deal more and more with a lot of questions around user privacy and consumer protections.
Whether crypto exchange customers can expect their personal information to remain redacted, should the provider enter bankruptcy, will continue to be a growing question for courts. This year we saw that question arise with companies like Celsius and FTX. Judges initially allowed the companies to file their creditors’ information under seal, but Celsius later released the names and holdings of all of its customers, while FTX is currently going through hearings about the same issue.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may also be gearing up to force exchanges into compliance with existing rules. SEC Chair Gary Gensler has long said he believes his agency has the authority it needs to regulate crypto companies, and that the law is clear in his view that most cryptocurrencies are securities and therefore more crypto exchanges are securities trading platforms. More recently, the SEC has suggested that it may be moving closer to actually doing something about this; Enforcement Director Gurbir Grewal said the runway for crypto companies is getting shorter, and the collapse of FTX has heightened the pressure for regulators to get a hold of this industry before something else falls apart.
I don’t expect too much in the way of legislative activity. While I know we’ll see additional bills introduced, including the highly anticipated stablecoin legislation from the House Financial Services Committee, the bigger question remains whether there will be enough bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate to actually pass anything into law. Jesse Hamilton provides his own view on legislation further down.
That being said, it’s hard to say this year was anything but a black mark for the industry in the eyes of regulators. The collapse of Terra/Luna, the bankruptcies of basically the entire crypto lender sector (minus Nexo, which still ended up leaving the U.S.), the meltdown of FTX (the largest exchange failure in years) – these are all events that will pressure regulators worldwide. The Facebook (now Meta)-led Libra (later Diem) project and the global backlash to it tells us how regulators may respond as well. It may not be a quick response, but years after Facebook first introduced Libra, lawmakers from different nations developed stablecoin regulations to rein in the sector. I suspect we’ll see a similar response in reaction to this year’s events.
Sandali Handagama (EMEA): This past year did not just test the prowess of global crypto companies and markets, but also the relatively new regulatory frameworks designed to govern the space. As high profile entities from Terraform Labs to FTX fell one after the other, the regulators they were linked to, be it in the Bahamas or Singapore, were also put on the spot.
Singapore, which boasted a sophisticated regulatory regime for crypto firms, faced tough questions on how its central bank decided which platforms were safe for investors after it flagged rival exchange Binance but not the now-bankrupt FTX.
In the European Union, lawmakers questioned if their landmark Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) framework, hailed as a global standard for crypto regulation, could really prevent an FTX-style collapse, which had over 100 entities operating in multiple jurisdictions while registered in the Bahamas.
The cross-border nature of crypto warrants global cooperation on regulations, international bodies like the International Monetary Fund and the Financial Stability Board have said. The push for global standards for crypto only intensified as the markets went from bad to worse this year. In 2023, we’ll hear more about a global push for oversight and perhaps watch international leaders tackle a tougher question – are regulations enough?
Jesse Hamilton (U.S.): If crypto has a future as a widespread, commonly exchanged asset, that future could be decided this year in Washington, D.C.
The policy work is coming to a head, including with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s eventual decision on whether the government should step into the field with a digital dollar and a number of legislative efforts that could finally set down national rules for stablecoins and crypto trading that will secure a place for digital assets in the U.S. financial system. That comes with a price, of course, and it may be too high for some in the industry.
This regulatory reckoning comes as many U.S. lawmakers and the heads of agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are particularly skeptical about the way things are run in crypto world, and the latest crisis with FTX could mean more stringent oversight than what lawmakers contemplated in the first few bills that started the debate. Meanwhile, if the SEC retains the authority to define what makes a token a security (and so far, Chair Gary Gensler says most of them are), that agency will hold token issuers and exchanges to existing securities law, which never foresaw decentralized crypto assets.
The new Congress may take a while to settle in during 2023, so it could be months before the Senate (still controlled by Democrats) and the House of Representatives (newly piloted by Republicans) will find common ground on crypto. The effort that may be farthest along is the House Financial Services Committee’s bipartisan stablecoin regulation bill, so that relatively narrow legislation could test whether crypto is among the limited range of issues that a divided government can move forward on. The two parties, several committees and a lot of crypto-doubting lawmakers have to be brought together before the industry can finally get more comprehensive regulation.
While Congress works on that, U.S. financial agency chiefs who make up the Financial Stability Oversight Council could use that group’s powers to formally declare crypto activities such as stablecoins as systemically important, which could give the Fed or others some regulatory authority there. And apart from the onset of significant enforcement actions likely coming from the SEC in 2023, lesser-known agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could also start imposing their powers over the financial products offered by crypto firms.
Cheyenne Ligon (U.S.): The spectacular downfall of FTX in November – which saw the world’s second-largest crypto exchange reduced to rubble in little more than a week – was certainly the largest and most shocking failure of 2022, but it was far from this year’s only crypto collapse.
The FTX drama has had the secondary effect of drawing attention away from the failures that came before it – including the depegging and subsequent implosion of algorithmic stablecoin issuer Terra, the $10 billion wipeout of hedge fund Three Arrows Capital and a wave of other crypto bankruptcies including Celsius Network and Voyager Digital.
FTX’s collapse – and the fall from grace of its former CEO, Sam Bankman-Fried, who is now facing criminal fraud charges for his role in the alleged scheme – has also overshadowed subsequent bankruptcies (like BlockFi’s) in the wake of its spreading contagion.
The knock-on effects of that contagion has also caused several other major crypto companies including Nexo, Gemini, and Genesis (a sister company of CoinDesk) to wobble while FTX continues to steal the spotlight.
Though 2022 was a major year for crypto bankruptcies, the momentum shows no signs of slowing in 2023. The bankruptcy process is often slow and painstaking, and the bankruptcies that began in 2023 will stretch well into 2023 and perhaps beyond. And, if the dominoes continue to fall (and they almost certainly will), still more crypto companies will join them.
Camomile Shumba (UK): The U.K. was a big story with the political and regulatory turmoil putting into question the crypto hub plans Prime Minister Rishi Sunak set out when he was finance minister. It’s unclear if the political storm has passed with many calling for an early general election which could result in Labour – the current favorite party to win, who may not be as crypto friendly as the current ruling Tory Party – taking charge.
What also is unclear is whether the country's crypto hub ambitions have any real standing when its financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has a strict stance when it comes to crypto. CEO Nikhil Rathi told lawmakers in a meeting that the FCA had turned away 85% of the crypto companies that tried to register with it to operate in the country.
The Financial Services and Markets bill, which is still being debated in Parliament, will give the FCA powers to regulate crypto and how these companies advertise to U.K. clients. The U.K. government’s finance arm, the Treasury, will set out how best to regulate the industry, beginning with a public consultation. How all this unfolds will indicate how crypto friendly the U.K. will be.
Lavender Au (APAC): Regulatory frameworks are starting to firm up in Asia. This year, Hong Kong passed its licensing regime on exchanges and South Korea put together a bill to govern digital assets. 2022 was also a year of adjustments. Japan committed to relaxing tax regulations, which effectively made it impossible to issue tokens in the country. Singapore considered tightening regulations to reduce risk to retail investors.
Strict regulations in the region also mean there’s business in finding ways to dodge them. Investors in Japan use gray OTC channels to avoid high taxes. China’s investors continue to onramp — an estimated 8% of FTX users were based in the country, according to a chart shown at its first bankruptcy hearing.
As in other regions, the collapses of Luna and FTX added urgency to regulatory efforts. Next year, Asian regulators will issue regulatory frameworks on stablecoins. Soft consultations in Hong Kong will continue on requirements for allowing retail to invest. Both Japan and Singapore have indicated that they are looking into regulating DeFi.
This year, to enter local markets, exchanges with a global presence have snapped up smaller local regulated exchanges (see Binance’s acquisition of Sakura in Japan and Tokocrypto in Indonesia). More mergers and acquisitions are likely in 2023, as larger players look to snap up more local players.
Jack Schickler (EU): The Markets in Crypto Assets law made the European Union the first major jurisdiction with a legal framework for the sector. As various shocks hit in 2022, EU regulators vaunted their new consumer protection and financial stability rules – which, they said, ensure stablecoins have decent reserves (side-eye to terraUSD) and that crypto exchanges are properly governed (I’m looking at you, FTX).
2023 presents a fork in the road for crypto companies. Register with authorities under MiCA, and you get legitimacy: the right to advertise within the bloc, official approval to persuade people you aren’t the next FTX, connections to traditional finance that helps onramp new clients.
But if an exchange or wallet provider doesn’t want to jump through all those regulatory hoops, it can still sell crypto in the EU by a loophole known as reverse solicitation. Offshore providers could also offer less scrupulous clients tempting extra features, like not reporting their holdings to EU tax authorities.
Lately the trend seemed to be in favor of increasing regulatory compliance; Binance, which once boasted that it had no headquarters, has now set up entities in Cyprus, France, Spain and Italy as it prepares for MiCA to take effect in 2024. But crypto companies will all be looking over their shoulders as they take decisions: no company wants its competitors to be getting an unfair advantage. Which way will they jump?
Amitoj Singh (India): In 2023, Indian crypto enthusiasts will have their eyes on three major events.
First, the annual budget announcement, which could see India change its crypto taxation policy. A 30% tax on crypto profits and a 1% tax deducted at source (TDS) on all transactions, among other macroeconomic factors, had a brutal impact on trading in India. The industry has asked the government to reconsider these rules.
Second, India will host the Group of 20 (G-20) nations in September 2023 in New Delhi. When India assumed the G-20 presidency in Dec. 2022, it stated that framing globally coordinated crypto rules would be a priority. Deliberations between the G-20 nations have begun and will culminate during the summit with the expectation that the world’s largest economies settle on a globally acceptable crypto regulation framework.
Third, the nation’s central bank hopes to launch its CBDC on a full scale by the end of 2023. Currently, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has commenced its pilot in four cities with the participation of four major cities. The pilot's progress will determine the future of India’s digital rupee and potentially contribute to the globally acceptable standards around the use cases of CBDCs.
A year ago, I asked my team – then the newly created regulatory team at CoinDesk – what everyone would monitor over the course of 2022.
Sandali Handagama highlighted the European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets framework, which lawmakers advanced this year. Elsewhere, a digital euro is still under discussion but is still a ways from realization.
Cheyenne Ligon said she expected to see “an uptick in the number of criminal probes” tied to crypto, alongside other court cases such as the sentencing of Ethereum developer Virgil Griffith. We did indeed see a rise in the profiles of SEC and CFTC enforcement actions, including the SEC explicitly calling several cryptocurrencies securities in an enforcement action against a former Coinbase employee and the CFTC going so far as to sue an entire DAO in an ongoing matter.
Lavender Au said South Korea’s presidential election could lead to a change in how the country approaches digital assets. Japan is similarly advancing its efforts to better understand and legislate cryptocurrencies, like stablecoins, while Hong Kong’s government is seeking to draw in new crypto businesses.
Amitoj Singh said he would watch for how India tried to mitigate crypto risks and tax rules, just ahead of India implementing a fairly strict tax regime that appears to have actually impacted the entire industry within India.
Last year I said I was looking at stablecoin regulation and the bipartisan infrastructure law, as well as whether regulators would act decisively.
We heard about bipartisan stablecoin legislation that seems almost certain to be debated and discussed in the new Congress, even as it fell short of introduction this year.
I also wrote, “Will one of these agencies issue guidance for startups trying to launch in the U.S.? Or will 2022 be a repeat of 2021 and 2020 and 2019 and so on where we hear speeches and see enforcement actions but not much more.”
I guess we have our answer.
N/A
(The Verge) Hackers stole customer vault data in a recent breach of password managing service LastPass. If you use it, you may want to look into updating some passwords. Like now.
(Politico) Southwest Airlines had a historically awful Christmas, canceling thousands of flights and still dealing with the effects of Winter Storm Elliot. Congress is probably going to have a look.
If you’ve got thoughts or questions on what I should discuss next week or any other feedback you’d like to share, feel free to email me at nik@coindesk.com or find me on Twitter @nikhileshde.
You can also join the group conversation on Telegram.
See ya’ll next week!"